<p><span style='font-size:smaller'>WITH LOVE TO</span></p>
<p>BRYAN MOYNE AND DIANA MOSLEY</p>


<div class='blockquote'>

<p><i>‘Well in</i> our <span class='it'>country,’ said Alice, still panting a little,
‘you’d generally get to somewhere else—if you ran
very fast for a long time, as we’ve been doing.’</span></p>

<p><i>‘A slow sort of country!’ said the Queen. ‘Now</i>,
here, <span class='it'>you see, it takes all the running you can do, to
keep in the same place. If you want to get somewhere
else, you must run at least twice as fast as that!’</span></p>

<hr/>

<p><span class='it'>‘If I wasn’t real,’ Alice said—half laughing
through her tears, it all seemed so ridiculous—‘I
shouldn’t be able to cry.’</span></p>

<p><span class='it'>‘I hope you don’t suppose those are real tears?’
Tweedledum interrupted in a tone of great contempt.</span></p>

<p>—Alice Through the Looking Glass</p>

</div>

<hr/>

<h2>Chapter One</h2>

<p>It was clearly going to be a bad crossing.</p>

<p>With Asiatic resignation Father Rothschild S.J. put down
his suitcase in the corner of the bar and went on deck. (It
was a small suitcase of imitation crocodile hide. The initials
stamped on it in Gothic characters were not Father Rothschild’s,
for he had borrowed it that morning from the
<i>valet-de-chambre</i> of his hotel. It contained some rudimentary
underclothes, six important new books in six languages,
a false beard and a school atlas and gazetteer heavily annotated.)
Standing on the deck Father Rothschild leant his
elbows on the rail, rested his chin in his hands and surveyed
the procession of passengers coming up the gangway, each
face eloquent of polite misgiving.</p>

<p>Very few of them were unknown to the Jesuit, for it was
his happy knack to remember everything that could possibly
be learned about every one who could possibly be of
any importance. His tongue protruded very slightly and,
had they not all been so concerned with luggage and the
weather, some one might have observed in him a peculiar
resemblance to those plaster reproductions of the gargoyles
of Notre Dame which may be seen in the shop windows of
artists’ colourmen tinted the colour of ‘Old Ivory’, peering
intently from among stencil outfits and plasticine and
tubes of water-colour paint. High above his head swung
Mrs Melrose Ape’s travel-worn Packard car, bearing the
dust of three continents, against the darkening sky, and up
the companion-way at the head of her angels strode Mrs
Melrose Ape, the woman evangelist.</p>

<p>‘Faith.’</p>

<p>‘Here, Mrs Ape.’</p>

<p>‘Charity.’</p>

<p>‘Here, Mrs Ape.’</p>

<p>‘Fortitude.’</p>

<p>‘Here, Mrs Ape.’</p>

<p>‘Chastity.... Where is Chastity?’</p>

<p>‘Chastity didn’t feel well, Mrs Ape. She went below.’</p>

<p>‘That girl’s more trouble than she’s worth. Whenever
there’s any packing to be done, Chastity doesn’t feel well.
Are all the rest here—Humility, Prudence, Divine Discontent,
Mercy, Justice and Creative Endeavour?’</p>

<p>‘Creative Endeavour lost her wings, Mrs Ape. She got
talking to a gentleman in the train.... Oh, there she is.’</p>

<p>‘Got ’em?’ asked Mrs Ape.</p>

<p>Too breathless to speak, Creative Endeavour nodded.
(Each of the angels carried her wings in a little black box
like a violin case.)</p>

<p>‘Right,’ said Mrs Ape, ‘and just you hold on to ’em
tight and not so much talking to gentlemen in trains.
You’re angels, not a panto, see?’</p>

<p>The angels crowded together disconsolately. It was awful
when Mrs Ape was like this. My, how they would pinch
Chastity and Creative Endeavour when they got them
alone in their nightshirts. It was bad enough their going
to be so sick without that they had Mrs Ape pitching into
them too.</p>

<p>Seeing their discomfort, Mrs Ape softened and smiled.
She was nothing if not ‘magnetic’.</p>

<p>‘Well, girls,’ she said, ‘I must be getting along. They say
it’s going to be rough, but don’t you believe it. If you have
peace in your hearts your stomach will look after itself, and
remember if you <i>do</i> feel queer—<i>sing</i>. There’s nothing like
it.’</p>

<p>‘Good-bye, Mrs Ape, and thank you,’ said the angels;
they bobbed prettily, turned about and trooped aft to the
second-class part of the ship. Mrs Ape watched them benignly,
then, squaring her shoulders and looking (except
that she had really no beard to speak of) every inch a
sailor, strode resolutely forrard to the first-class bar.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Other prominent people were embarking, all very unhappy
about the weather; to avert the terrors of sea-sickness
they had indulged in every kind of civilized witchcraft,
but they were lacking in faith.</p>

<p>Miss Runcible was there, and Miles Malpractice, and all
the Younger Set. They had spent a jolly morning strapping
each other’s tummies with sticking plaster (how Miss
Runcible had wriggled).</p>

<p>The Right Honourable Walter Outrage, M.P., last
week’s Prime Minister, was there. Before breakfast that
morning (which had suffered in consequence) Mr Outrage
had taken twice the maximum dose of a patent preparation
of chloral, and losing heart later had finished the bottle in
the train. He moved in an uneasy trance, closely escorted
by the most public-looking detective sergeants. These men
had been with Mr Outrage in Paris, and what they did not
know about his goings on was not worth knowing, at least
from a novelist’s point of view. (When they spoke about
him to each other they called him ‘the Right Honourable
Rape’, but that was more by way of being a pun about his
name than a criticism of the conduct of his love affairs, in
which, if the truth were known, he displayed a notable
diffidence and the liability to panic.)</p>

<hr/>

<p>Lady Throbbing and Mrs Blackwater, those twin sisters
whose portrait by Millais auctioned recently at Christie’s
made a record in rock-bottom prices, were sitting on one of
the teak benches eating apples and drinking what Lady
Throbbing, with late Victorian <i>chic</i>, called ‘a bottle of
pop’, and Mrs Blackwater, more exotically, called ‘<i>champagne</i>’,
pronouncing it as though it were French.</p>

<p>‘Surely, Kitty, that is Mr Outrage, last week’s Prime
Minister.’</p>

<p>‘Nonsense, Fanny, where?’</p>

<p>‘Just in front of the two men with bowler hats, next to
the clergyman.’</p>

<p>‘It is certainly like his photographs. How strange he looks.’</p>

<p>‘Just like poor Throbbing ... all that last year.’</p>

<p>‘... And none of us even suspected ... until they found
the bottles under the board in his dressing-room ... and
we all used to think it was drink ...’</p>

<p>‘I don’t think one finds <i>quite</i> the same class as Prime
Minister nowadays, do you think?’</p>

<p>‘They say that only <i>one</i> person has any influence with
Mr Outrage ...’</p>

<p>‘At the Japanese Embassy ...’</p>

<p>‘Of course, dear, not so loud. But tell me, Fanny,
seriously, do you think really and truly Mr Outrage has IT?’</p>

<p>‘He has a very nice figure for a man of his age.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, but <i>his</i> age, and the bull-like type is so often disappointing.
Another glass? You will be grateful for it when
the ship begins to move.’</p>

<p>‘I quite thought we <i>were</i> moving.’</p>

<p>‘How absurd you are, Fanny, and yet I can’t help
laughing.’</p>

<p>So arm in arm and shaken by little giggles the two tipsy
old ladies went down to their cabin.</p>

<p>Of the other passengers, some had filled their ears with
cotton wool, others wore smoked glasses, while several ate
dry captain’s biscuits from paper bags, as Red Indians are
said to eat snake’s flesh to make them cunning. Mrs Hoop
repeated feverishly over and over again a formula she had
learned from a yogi in New York City. A few ‘good sailors’,
whose luggage bore the labels of many voyages, strode
aggressively about smoking small, foul pipes and trying to
get up a four of bridge.</p>

<p>Two minutes before the advertised time of departure,
while the first admonitory whistling and shouting was
going on, a young man came on board carrying his bag.
There was nothing particularly remarkable about his appearance.
He looked exactly as young men like him do look;
he was carrying his own bag, which was disagreeably heavy,
because he had no money left in francs and very little left
in anything else. He had been two months in Paris writing
a book and was coming home because, in the course of his
correspondence, he had got engaged to be married. His
name was Adam Fenwick-Symes.</p>

<p>Father Rothschild smiled at him in a kindly manner.</p>

<p>‘I doubt whether you remember me,’ he said. ‘We met
at Oxford five years ago at luncheon with the Dean of
Balliol. I shall be interested to read your book when it
appears—an autobiography, I understand. And may I be
one of the first to congratulate you on your engagement?
I am afraid you will find your father-in-law a little eccentric—and
forgetful. He had a nasty attack of bronchitis this
winter. It’s a draughty house—far too big for these days.
Well, I must go below now. It is going to be rough and I am
a bad sailor. We meet at Lady Metroland’s on the twelfth,
if not, as I hope, before.’</p>

<p>Before Adam had time to reply the Jesuit disappeared.
Suddenly the head popped back.</p>

<p>‘There is an extremely dangerous and disagreeable
woman on board—a Mrs Ape.’</p>

<p>Then he was gone again, and almost at once the boat
began to slip away from the quay towards the mouth of
the harbour.</p>

<p>Sometimes the ship pitched and sometimes she rolled
and sometimes she stood quite still and shivered all over,
poised above an abyss of dark water; then she would go
swooping down like a scenic railway train into a windless
hollow and up again with a rush into the gale; sometimes
she would burrow her path, with convulsive nosings and
scramblings like a terrier in a rabbit hole; and sometimes
she would drop dead like a lift. It was this last movement
that caused the most havoc among the passengers.</p>

<p>‘Oh,’ said the Bright Young People. ‘Oh, oh oh.’</p>

<p>‘It’s just exactly like being inside a cocktail shaker,’ said
Miles Malpractice. ‘Darling, your face—eau de Nil.’</p>

<p>‘Too, too sick-making,’ said Miss Runcible, with one of
her rare flashes of accuracy.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Kitty Blackwater and Fanny Throbbing lay one above the
other in their bunks rigid from wig to toe.</p>

<p>‘I wonder, do you think the <i>champagne</i> ... ?’</p>

<p>‘Kitty.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, Fanny, dear.’</p>

<p>‘Kitty, I think, in fact, I am sure I have some sal volatile.
... Kitty, I thought that perhaps as you are nearer ...
it would really hardly be safe for me to try and descend ...
I might break a leg.’</p>

<p>‘Not after <i>champagne</i>, Fanny, do you think?’</p>

<p>‘But I need it. Of course, dear, <i>if it’s too much trouble</i>?’</p>

<p>‘Nothing is too much trouble, darling, you know that.
But now I come to think of it, I remember, quite clearly,
for a fact, that you did <i>not</i> pack the sal volatile.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, Kitty, oh, Kitty, please ... you would be sorry for
this if I died ... oh.’</p>

<p>‘But I saw the sal volatile on your dressing-table after
your luggage had gone down, dear. I remember thinking, I
must take that down to Fanny, and then, dear, I got confused
over the tips, so you see ...’</p>

<p>‘I ... put ... it ... in ... myself.... Next to my
brushes ... you ... beast.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, Fanny ...’</p>

<p>‘Oh ... Oh ... Oh.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>To Father Rothschild no passage was worse than any
other. He thought of the sufferings of the saints, the
mutability of human nature, the Four Last Things, and
between whiles repeated snatches of the penitential psalms.</p>

<hr/>

<p>The Leader of His Majesty’s Opposition lay sunk in a
rather glorious coma, made splendid by dreams of Oriental
imagery—of painted paper houses; of golden dragons and
gardens of almond blossom; of golden limbs and almond
eyes, humble and caressing; of very small golden feet among
almond blossoms; of little painted cups full of golden tea;
of a golden voice singing behind a painted paper screen;
of humble, caressing little golden hands and eyes shaped
like almonds and the colour of night.</p>

<p>Outside his door two very limp detective sergeants had
deserted their posts.</p>

<p>‘The bloke as could make trouble on a ship like this ’ere
deserves to get away with it,’ they said.</p>

<p>The ship creaked in every plate, doors slammed, trunks
fell about, the wind howled; the screw, now out of the
water, now in, raced and churned, shaking down hat-boxes
like ripe apples; but above all the roar and clatter there rose
from the second-class ladies’ saloon the despairing voices
of Mrs Ape’s angels, in frequently broken unison, singing,
singing, wildly, desperately, as though their hearts would
break in the effort and their minds lose their reason, Mrs
Ape’s famous hymn, <i>There ain’t no flies on the Lamb of God</i>.</p>

<hr/>

<p>The Captain and the Chief Officer sat on the bridge engrossed
in a crossword puzzle.</p>

<p>‘Looks like we may get some heavy weather if the wind
gets up,’ he said. ‘Shouldn’t wonder if there wasn’t a bit of
a sea running to-night.’</p>

<p>‘Well, we can’t always have it quiet like this,’ said the
Chief Officer. ‘Word of eighteen letters meaning carnivorous
mammal. Search me if I know how they do think of
these things.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Adam Fenwick-Symes sat among the good sailors in the
smoking-room drinking his third Irish whisky and wondering
how soon he would feel definitely ill. Already there was
a vague depression gathering at the top of his head. There
were thirty-five minutes more, probably longer with the
head wind keeping them back.</p>

<p>Opposite him sat a much-travelled and chatty journalist
telling him smutty stories. From time to time Adam interposed
some more or less appropriate comment, ‘No, I say
that’s a good one,’ or, ‘I must remember that,’ or just ‘Ha,
Ha, Ha,’ but his mind was not really in a receptive condition.</p>

<p>Up went the ship, up, up, up, paused and then plunged
down with a sidelong slither. Adam caught at his glass and
saved it. Then shut his eyes.</p>

<p>‘Now I’ll tell you a drawing-room one,’ said the journalist.</p>

<p>Behind them a game of cards was in progress among the
commercial gents. At first they had rather a jolly time about
it, saying, ‘What ho, she bumps,’ or ‘Steady, the Buffs,’
when the cards and glasses and ash-tray were thrown on to
the floor, but in the last ten minutes they were growing
notably quieter. It was rather a nasty kind of hush.</p>

<p>‘... And forty aces and two-fifty for the rubber. Shall
we cut again or stay as we are?’</p>

<p>‘How about knocking off for a bit? Makes me tired—table
moving about all the time.’</p>

<p>‘Why, Arthur, you ain’t feeling ill, surely?’</p>

<p>‘ ’Course I ain’t feeling ill, only tired.’</p>

<p>‘Well, of course, if Arthur’s feeling ill ...’</p>

<p>‘Who’d have thought of old Arthur feeling ill?’</p>

<p>‘I ain’t feeling ill, I tell you. Just tired. But if you boys
want to go on I’m not the one to spoil a game.’</p>

<p>‘Good old Arthur. ’Course he ain’t feeling ill. Look out
for the cards, Bill, up she goes again.’</p>

<p>‘What about one all round? Same again?’</p>

<p>‘Same again.’</p>

<p>‘Good luck, Arthur.’ ‘Good luck.’ ‘Here’s fun.’ ‘Down she
goes.’</p>

<p>‘Whose deal? You dealt last, didn’t you, Mr Henderson?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, Arthur’s deal.’</p>

<p>‘Your deal, Arthur. Cheer up, old scout.’</p>

<p>‘Don’t you go doing that. It isn’t right to hit a chap on
the back like that.’</p>

<p>‘Look out with the cards, Arthur.’</p>

<p>‘Well, what d’you expect, being hit on the back like that.
Makes me tired.’</p>

<p>‘Here, I got fifteen cards.’</p>

<p>‘I wonder if you’ve heard this one,’ said the journalist.
‘There was a man lived at Aberdeen, and he was terribly
keen on fishing, so when he married, he married a woman
with worms. That’s rich, eh? You see he was keen on
fishing, see, and she had worms, see, he lived in Aberdeen.
That’s a good one that is.’</p>

<p>‘D’you know, I think I shall go on deck for a minute. A
bit stuffy in here, don’t you think?’</p>

<p>‘You can’t do that. The sea’s coming right over it all
the time. Not feeling queer, are you?’</p>

<p>‘No, of course I’m not feeling queer. I only thought a
little fresh air ... Christ, why won’t the damn thing stop?’</p>

<p>‘Steady, old boy. I wouldn’t go trying to walk about, not
if I were you. Much better stay just where you are. What
you want’s a spot of whisky.’</p>

<p>‘Not feeling ill, you know. Just stuffy.’</p>

<p>‘That’s all right, old boy. Trust Auntie.’</p>

<p>The bridge party was not being a success.</p>

<p>‘Hullo, Mr Henderson. What’s that spade?’</p>

<p>‘That’s the ace that is.’</p>

<p>‘I can see it’s the ace. What I mean you didn’t ought to
have trumped that last trick not if you had a spade.’</p>

<p>‘What d’you mean, didn’t ought to have trumped it?
Trumps led.’</p>

<p>‘No, they did <i>not</i>. Arthur led a spade.’</p>

<p>‘He led a trump, didn’t you, Arthur?’</p>

<p>‘Arthur led a spade.’</p>

<p>‘He couldn’t have led a spade because for why he put a
heart on my king of spades when I thought he had the
queen. He hasn’t got no spades.’</p>

<p>‘What d’you mean, not got no spades? I got the queen.’</p>

<p>‘Arthur, old man, you <i>must</i> be feeling queer.’</p>

<p>‘No, I ain’t, I tell you, just tired. You’d be tired if you’d
been hit on the back same as I was ... anyway I’m fed up
with this game ... there go the cards again.’</p>

<p>This time no one troubled to pick them up. Presently
Mr Henderson said, ‘Funny thing, don’t know why I feel
all swimmy of a sudden. Must have ate something that
wasn’t quite right. You never can tell with foreign foods—all
messed up like they do.’</p>

<p>‘Now you mention it, I don’t feel too spry myself. Damn
bad ventilation on these Channel boats.’</p>

<p>‘That’s what it is. Ventilation. You said it.’</p>

<p>‘You know I’m funny. I never feel sea-sick, mind, but
I often find going on boats doesn’t agree with me.’</p>

<p>‘I’m like that, too.’</p>

<p>‘Ventilation ... a disgrace.’</p>

<p>‘Lord, I shall be glad when we get to Dover. Home, sweet
home, eh?’</p>

<p>Adam held on very tightly to the brass-bound edge of
the table and felt a little better. He was <i>not</i> going to be sick,
and that was that; not with that gargoyle of a man opposite
anyway. They <i>must</i> be in sight of land soon.</p>

<hr/>

<p>It was at this time, when things were at their lowest, that
Mrs Ape reappeared in the smoking-room. She stood for a
second or two in the entrance balanced between swinging
door and swinging door-post; then as the ship momentarily
righted herself, she strode to the bar, her feet well apart,
her hands in the pockets of her tweed coat.</p>

<p>‘Double rum,’ she said and smiled magnetically at the
miserable little collection of men seated about the room.
‘Why, boys,’ she said, ‘but you’re looking terrible put out
over something. What’s it all about? Is it your souls that’s
wrong or is it that the ship won’t keep still? Rough? ’Course
it’s rough. But let me ask you this. If you’re put out this
way over just an hour’s sea-sickness’ (‘Not sea-sick,
ventilation,’ said Mr Henderson mechanically), ‘what are
you going to be like when you make the mighty big journey
that’s waiting for us all? Are you right with God?’ said Mrs
Ape. ‘Are you prepared for death?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, am I not?’ said Arthur. ‘I ’aven’t thought of nothing
else for the last half hour.’</p>

<p>‘Now, boys, I’ll tell you what we’re going to do. We’re
going to sing a song together, you and me.’ (‘Oh, God,’ said
Adam.) ‘You may not know it, but you are. You’ll feel
better for it body <i>and</i> soul. It’s a song of Hope. You don’t
hear much about Hope these days, do you? Plenty about
Faith, plenty about Charity. They’ve forgotten all about
Hope. There’s only one great evil in the world to-day.
Despair. I know all about England, and I tell you straight,
boys, I’ve got the goods for you. Hope’s what you want and
Hope’s what I got. Here, steward, hand round these leaflets.
There’s the song on the back. Now all together ... sing.
Five bob for you, steward, if you can shout me down.
Splendid, all together, boys.’</p>

<p>In a rich, very audible voice Mrs Ape led the singing. Her
arms rose, fell and fluttered with the rhythm of the song.
The bar steward was hers already—inaccurate sometimes in
his reading of the words, but with a sustained power in the
low notes that defied competition. The journalist joined
in next and Arthur set up a little hum. Soon they were all
at it, singing like blazes, and it is undoubtedly true that they
felt the better for it.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Father Rothschild heard it and turned his face to the wall.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Kitty Blackwater heard it.</p>

<p>‘Fanny.’</p>

<p>‘Well.’</p>

<p>‘Fanny, dear, do you hear singing?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, dear, thank you.’</p>

<p>‘Fanny, dear, I hope they aren’t holding a <i>service</i>. I
mean, dear, it sounds so like a hymn. Do you think, possibly,
we are <i>in danger</i>? Fanny, are we going to be wrecked?’</p>

<p>‘I should be neither surprised nor sorry.’</p>

<p>‘Darling, how can you? ... We should have heard it,
shouldn’t we, if we had actually <i>hit</i> anything? ... Fanny,
dear, if you like I will have a look for your sal volatile.’</p>

<p>‘I hardly think that would be any help, dear, since you
<i>saw</i> it on my dressing-table.’</p>

<p>‘I may have been mistaken.’</p>

<p>‘You <i>said</i> you <i>saw</i> it.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>The captain heard it. ‘All the time I been at sea,’ he said,
‘I never could stand for missionaries.’</p>

<p>‘Word of six letters beginning with ZB,’ said the chief
officer, ‘meaning “used in astronomic calculation”.’</p>

<p>‘Z can’t be right,’ said the captain after a few minutes’
thought.</p>

<hr/>

<p>The Bright Young People heard it. ‘So like one’s first
parties,’ said Miss Runcible, ‘being sick with other people
singing.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Mrs Hoop heard it. ‘Well,’ she thought, ‘I’m through
with theosophy after this journey. Reckon I’ll give the
Catholics the once over.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Aft, in the second-class saloon, where the screw was doing
its worst, the angels heard it. It was some time since they
had given up singing.</p>

<p>‘Her again,’ said Divine Discontent.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Mr Outrage alone lay happily undisturbed, his mind
absorbed in lovely dream sequences of a world of little
cooing voices, so caressing, so humble; and dark eyes,
night-coloured, the shape of almonds over painted paper
screens; little golden bodies, so flexible, so firm, so surprising
in the positions they assumed.</p>

<hr/>

<p>They were still singing in the smoking-room when, in
very little more than her usual time, the ship came into the
harbour at Dover. Then Mrs Ape, as was her invariable
rule, took round the hat and collected nearly two pounds,
not counting her own five shillings which she got back from
the bar steward. ‘Salvation doesn’t do them the same good
if they think it’s free,’ was her favourite axiom.</p>

<h2>Chapter Two</h2>

<p>‘Have you anything to declare?’</p>

<p>‘Wings.’</p>

<p>‘Have you wore them?’</p>

<p>‘Sure.’</p>

<p>‘That’s all right, then.’</p>

<p>‘Divine Discontent gets all the smiles all the time,’ complained
Fortitude to Prudence. ‘Golly, but it’s good to be on
dry land.’</p>

<p>Unsteadily, but with renewed hope, the passengers had
disembarked.</p>

<p>Father Rothschild fluttered a diplomatic <i>laissez-passer</i>
and disappeared in the large car that had been sent to meet
him. The others were jostling one another with their
luggage, trying to attract the Customs officers and longing
for a cup of tea.</p>

<p>‘I got half a dozen of the best stowed away,’ confided
the journalist. ‘They’re generally pretty easy after a bad
crossing.’ And sure enough he was soon settled in the corner
of a first-class carriage (for the paper was, of course, paying
his expenses) with his luggage safely chalked in the van.</p>

<p>It was some time before Adam could get attended to.</p>

<p>‘I’ve nothing but some very old clothes and some books,’
he said.</p>

<p>But here he showed himself deficient in tact, for the
man’s casual air disappeared in a flash.</p>

<p>‘Books, eh?’ he said. ‘And what sort of books, may I
ask?’</p>

<p>‘Look for yourself.’</p>

<p>‘Thank <i>you</i>, that’s what I mean to do. <i>Books</i>, indeed.’</p>

<p>Adam wearily unstrapped and unlocked his suitcase.</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said the Customs officer menacingly, as though his
worst suspicions had been confirmed, ‘I should just about
say you had got some books.’</p>

<p>One by one he took the books out and piled them on the
counter. A copy of Dante excited his especial disgust.</p>

<p>‘French, eh?’ he said. ‘I guessed as much, and pretty
dirty, too, I shouldn’t wonder. Now just you wait while I
look up these here <i>books</i>’—how he said it!—‘in my list.
Particularly against books the Home Secretary is. If we can’t
stamp out literature in the country, we can at least stop its
being brought in from outside. That’s what he said the
other day in Parliament, and I says “Hear, hear....”
Hullo, hullo, what’s this, may I ask?’</p>

<p>Gingerly, as though it might at any moment explode, he
produced and laid on the counter a large pile of type-script.</p>

<p>‘That’s a book too,’ said Adam. ‘One I’ve just written. It
is my memoirs.’</p>

<p>‘Ho, it is, is it? Well, I’ll take that along, too, to the chief.
You better come to.’</p>

<p>‘But I’ve got to catch the train.’</p>

<p>‘You come along. There’s worse things than missing
trains,’ he hinted darkly.</p>

<p>They went together into an inner office, the walls of
which were lined with contraband pornography and strange
instruments, whose purpose Adam could not guess. From the
next room came the shrieks and yells of poor Miss Runcible,
who had been mistaken for a well-known jewel smuggler,
and was being stripped to the skin by two terrific wardresses.</p>

<p>‘Now then, what’s this about books?’ said the chief.</p>

<p>With the help of a printed list (which began ‘Aristotle,
Works of (Illustrated)’) they went through Adam’s books,
laboriously, one at a time, spelling out the titles.</p>

<p>Miss Runcible came through the office, working hard
with lipstick and compact.</p>

<p>‘Adam, darling, I never saw you on the boat,’ she said.
‘My dear, I can’t <i>tell</i> you the <i>things</i> that have been happening
to me in there. The way they looked ... too, too
shaming. Positively surgical, my dear, and <i>such</i> wicked old
women, just like <i>Dowagers</i>, my dear. As soon as I get to
London I shall ring up every Cabinet Minister and <i>all</i> the
newspapers and give them all the most shy-making details.’</p>

<p>The chief was at this time engrossed in Adam’s memoirs,
giving vent at intervals to a sinister chuckling sound that
was partly triumphant and partly derisive, but in the main
genuinely appreciative.</p>

<p>‘Coo, Bert,’ he said. ‘Look at this; that’s rich, ain’t it?’</p>

<p>Presently he collected the sheets, tied them together and
put them on one side.</p>

<p>‘Well, see here,’ he said. ‘You can take these books on
architecture and the dictionary, and I don’t mind stretching
a point for once and letting you have the history books, too.
But this book on Economics comes under Subversive Propaganda.
That you leaves behind. And this here <i>Purgatorio</i>
doesn’t look right to me, so that stays behind, pending
inquiries. But as for this autobiography, that’s just downright
dirt, and we burns that straight away, see.’</p>

<p>‘But, good heavens, there isn’t a word in the book—you
must be misinterpreting it.’</p>

<p>‘Not so much of it. I knows dirt when I sees it or I
shouldn’t be where I am to-day.’</p>

<p>‘But do you realize that my whole livelihood depends on
this book?’</p>

<p>‘And <i>my</i> livelihood depends on stopping works like this
coming into the country. Now ’ook it quick if you don’t
want a police-court case.’</p>

<p>‘Adam, angel, don’t fuss or we shall miss the train.’</p>

<p>Miss Runcible took his arm and led him back to the
station and told him all about a lovely party that was going
to happen that night.</p>

<hr/>

<p>‘<i>Queer</i>, who felt queer?’</p>

<p>‘You did, Arthur.’</p>

<p>‘No I never ... just tired.’</p>

<p>‘It certainly was stuffy in there just for a bit.’</p>

<p>‘Wonderful how that old girl cheered things up. Got a
meeting next week in the Albert Hall.’</p>

<p>‘Shouldn’t be surprised if I didn’t go. What do you say,
Mr Henderson?’</p>

<p>‘She got a troupe of angels, so she said. All dressed up in
white with wings, lovely. Not a bad-looker herself, if it
comes to that.’</p>

<p>‘What did you put in the plate, Arthur?’</p>

<p>‘Half-crown.’</p>

<p>‘So did I. Funny thing, I ain’t never give a half-crown
like that before. She kind of draws it out of you, damned
if she doesn’t.’</p>

<p>‘You won’t get away from the Albert Hall not without
putting your hand in your pocket.’</p>

<p>‘No, but I’d like to see those angels dressed up, eh, Mr
Henderson?’</p>

<hr/>

<p>‘Fanny, surely that is Agatha Runcible, poor Viola
Chasm’s daughter?’</p>

<p>‘I wonder Viola allows her to go about like that. If she
were my daughter....’</p>

<p>‘<i>Your</i> daughter, Fanny....’</p>

<p>‘Kitty, that was not kind.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, I only meant ... have you, by the way, heard
of her lately?’</p>

<p>‘The last we heard was worse than anything, Kitty. She
has left Buenos Aires. I am afraid she has severed her
connection with Lady Metroland altogether. They think
that she is in some kind of touring company.’</p>

<p>‘Darling, I’m sorry. I should never have mentioned it,
but whenever I see Agatha Runcible I can’t help thinking
... girls seem to know so much nowadays. We had to
learn everything for ourselves, didn’t we, Fanny, and it
took so long. If I’d had Agatha Runcible’s chances....
Who is the young man with her?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know, and, frankly, I don’t think, do you? ...
He has that self-contained look.’</p>

<p>‘He has very nice eyes. And he moves well.’</p>

<p>‘I dare say when it came to the point ... Still, as I say,
if I had had Agatha Runcible’s advantages ...’</p>

<p>‘What are you looking for, darling?’</p>

<p>‘Why, darling, such an extraordinary thing. Here <i>is</i> the
sal volatile next to my brushes all the time.’</p>

<p>‘Fanny, how awful of me, if I’d only known ...’</p>

<p>‘I dare say there must have been another bottle you saw
on the dressing-table, sweetest. Perhaps the maid put it
there. You never know at the Lotti, do you?’</p>

<p>‘Fanny, forgive me ...’</p>

<p>‘But, dearest, what is there to forgive? After all, you <span class='it'>did
see</span> another bottle, didn’t you, Kitty darling?’</p>

<p>‘Why, look, there’s Miles.’</p>

<p>‘Miles?’</p>

<p>‘Your son, darling. My nephew, you know.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Miles.</i> Do you know, Kitty, I believe it is. He never
comes to see me now, the naughty boy.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, he looks terribly <i>tapette</i>.’</p>

<p>‘Darling, I know. It is a great grief to me. Only I try
not to think about it too much—he had so little chance with
poor Throbbing what he was.’</p>

<p>‘The sins of the fathers, Fanny ...’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Somewhere not far from Maidstone Mr Outrage became
fully conscious. Opposite him in the carriage the two
detectives slept, their bowler hats jammed forwards on
their foreheads, their mouths open, their huge red hands
lying limply in their laps. Rain beat on the windows; the
carriage was intensely cold and smelt of stale tobacco. Inside
there were advertisements of horrible picturesque
ruins; outside in the rain were hoardings advertising
patent medicines and dog biscuits. ‘Every Molassine dog
cake wags a tail,’ Mr Outrage read, and the train repeated
over and over again, ‘Right Honourable gent, Right
Honourable gent, Right Honourable gentleman, Right
Honourable gent ...’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Adam got into the carriage with the Younger Set. They
still looked a bit queer, but they cheered up wonderfully
when they heard about Miss Runcible’s outrageous treatment
at the hands of the Customs officers.</p>

<p>‘<i>Well</i>,’ they said, ‘<i>Well!</i> how too, too shaming, Agatha,
darling,’ they said. ‘How devastating, how un-policeman-like,
how goat-like, how sick-making, how too, too awful.’
And then they began talking about Archie Schwert’s party
that night.</p>

<p>‘Who’s Archie Schwert?’ asked Adam.</p>

<p>‘Oh, he’s someone new since you went away. The <i>most</i>
bogus man. Miles discovered him, and since then he’s been
climbing and climbing and <i>climbing</i>, my dear, till he
hardly knows us. He’s rather sweet, really, only too terribly
common, poor darling. He lives at the Ritz, and I think
that’s rather grand, don’t you?’</p>

<p>‘Is he giving his party there?’</p>

<p>‘My dear, of course not. In Edward Throbbing’s house.
He’s Miles’ brother, you know, only he’s frightfully dim and
political, and doesn’t know anybody. He got ill and went to
Kenya or somewhere and left his perfectly sheepish house in
Hertford Street, so we’ve all gone to live there. You’d
better come, too. The caretakers didn’t like it a bit at first,
but we gave them drinks and things, and now they’re
simply thrilled to the marrow about it and spend all their
time cutting out “bits”, my dear, from the papers about
our goings on.</p>

<p>‘One awful thing is we haven’t got a car. Miles broke it,
Edward’s, I mean, and we simply can’t afford to get it
mended, so I think we shall have to move soon. Everything’s
getting rather broken up, too, and dirty, if you
know what I mean. Because, you see, there aren’t any
servants, only the butler and his wife, and they are always
tight now. So demoralising. Mary Mouse has been a perfect
angel, and sent us great hampers of caviare and things....
She’s paying for Archie’s party to-night, of course.’</p>

<p>‘Do you know, I rather think I’m going to be sick again?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, Miles!’</p>

<p>(Oh, Bright Young People!)</p>

<hr/>

<p>Packed all together in a second-class carriage, the angels
were late in recovering their good humour.</p>

<p>‘She’s taken Prudence off in her car again,’ said Divine
Discontent, who once, for one delirious fortnight, had been
Mrs Ape’s favourite girl. ‘Can’t see what she sees in her.
What’s London like, Fortitude? I never been there but
once.’</p>

<p>‘Just exactly heaven. Shops and all.’</p>

<p>‘What are the men like, Fortitude?’</p>

<p>‘Say, don’t you never think of nothing but <i>men</i>, Chastity?’</p>

<p>‘I should say I do. I was only asking.’</p>

<p>‘Well, they ain’t much to look at, not after the shops.
But they has their uses.’</p>

<p>‘Say, did you hear that? You’re a cute one, Fortitude.
Did you hear what Fortitude said? She said “they have
their uses”.’</p>

<p>‘What, shops?’</p>

<p>‘No, silly, men.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Men.</i> That’s a good one, I should say.’</p>

<p>Presently the train arrived at Victoria, and all these
passengers were scattered all over London.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Adam left his bag at Shepheard’s Hotel, and drove
straight to Henrietta Street to see his publishers. It was
nearly closing time, so that most of the staff had packed up
and gone home, but by good fortune Mr Sam Benfleet, the
junior director with whom Adam always did his business,
was still in his room correcting proofs for one of his women
novelists. He was a competent young man, with a restrained
elegance of appearance (the stenographer always
trembled slightly when she brought him his cup of tea).</p>

<p>‘No, she can’t print that,’ he kept saying, endorsing one
after another of the printer’s protests. ‘No, damn it, she
can’t print <i>that</i>. She’ll have us all in prison.’ For it was one
of his most exacting duties to ‘ginger up’ the more reticent
of the manuscripts submitted and ‘tone down’ the more
‘outspoken’ until he had reduced them all to the acceptable
moral standard of his day.</p>

<p>He greeted Adam with the utmost cordiality.</p>

<p>‘Well, well, Adam, how are you? This is nice. Sit down.
Have a cigarette. What a day to arrive in London. Did you
have a good crossing?’</p>

<p>‘Not too good.’</p>

<p>‘I say, I <i>am</i> sorry. Nothing so beastly as a beastly crossing,
is there? Why don’t you come round to dinner at Wimpole
Street to-night? I’ve got some rather nice Americans
coming. Where are you staying?’</p>

<p>‘At “Shepheard’s”—Lottie Crump’s.’</p>

<p>‘Well, that’s always fun. I’ve been trying to get an
autobiography out of Lottie for ten years. And that reminds
me. You’re bringing us your manuscript, aren’t you? Old
Rampole was asking about it only the other day. It’s a week
overdue, you know. I hope you’ll like the preliminary
notices we’ve sent out. We’ve fixed the day of publication
for the second week in December, so as to give it a fortnight’s
run before Johnnie Hoop’s autobiography. That’s
going to be a seller. Sails a bit near the wind in places. We
had to cut out some things—you know what old Rampole
is. Johnnie didn’t like it a bit. But I’m looking forward
terribly to reading yours.’</p>

<p>‘Well, Sam, rather an awful thing happened about
that ...’</p>

<p>‘I say, I hope you’re not going to say it’s not finished.
The date on the contract, you know ...’</p>

<p>‘Oh, it’s finished all right. Burnt.’</p>

<p>‘Burnt?’</p>

<p>‘Burnt.’</p>

<p>‘What an awful thing. I hope you are insured.’</p>

<p>Adam explained the circumstances of the destruction of
his autobiography. There was a longish pause while Sam
Benfleet thought.</p>

<p>‘What worries me is how are we going to make that
sound convincing to old Rampole.’</p>

<p>‘I should think it sounded convincing enough.’</p>

<p>‘You don’t know old Rampole. It’s sometimes very difficult
for me, Adam, working under him. Now if I had my
own way I’d say, “Take your own time. Start again. Don’t
worry ...” But there’s old Rampole. He’s a devil for contracts,
you know, and you did <i>say</i>, didn’t you ... ? It’s all
very difficult. You know, I wish it hadn’t happened.’</p>

<p>‘So do I, oddly enough,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘There’s another difficulty. You’ve had an advance already,
haven’t you? Fifty pounds, wasn’t it? Well, you
know, <i>that</i> makes things very difficult. Old Rampole never
likes big advances like that to young authors. You know I
hate to say it, but I can’t help feeling that the best thing
would be for you to repay the advance—plus interest, of
course, old Rampole would insist on that—and cancel the
contract. Then if you ever thought of re-writing the book,
well, of course, we should be delighted to consider it. I
suppose that—well, I mean, it <i>would</i> be quite <i>convenient</i>,
and all that, to repay the advance?’</p>

<p>‘Not only inconvenient, but impossible,’ said Adam in no
particular manner.</p>

<p>There was another pause.</p>

<p>‘Deuced awkward,’ said Sam Benfleet. ‘It’s a shame the
way the Customs House officers are allowed to take the law
into their own hands. Quite ignorant men, too. Liberty of
the subject, I mean, and all that. I tell you what we’ll do.
We’ll start a correspondence about it in the <i>New Statesman</i>.
... It is all so deuced awkward. But I think I can see a way
out. I suppose you could get the book rewritten in time
for the Spring List? Well, we’ll cancel the contract and forget
all about the advance. No, no, my dear fellow, don’t
thank me. If only I was alone here I’d be doing that kind
of thing all day. Now instead we’ll have a new contract. It
won’t be quite so good as the last, I’m afraid. Old Rampole
wouldn’t stand for that. I’ll tell you what, we’ll give you our
standard first-novel contract. I’ve got a printed form here.
It won’t take a minute to fill up. Just sign here.’</p>

<p>‘May I just see the terms?’</p>

<p>‘Of course, my dear fellow. They look a bit hard at first,
I know, but it’s our usual form. We made a very special
case for you, you know. It’s very simple. No royalty on the
first two thousand, then a royalty of two and a half per cent.,
rising to five per cent, on the tenth thousand. We retain
serial, cinema, dramatic, American, Colonial and translation
rights, of course. And, of course, an option on your next
twelve books on the same terms. It’s a very straightforward
arrangement really. Doesn’t leave room for any of the disputes
which embitter the relations of author and publisher.
Most of our authors are working on a contract like that....
Splendid. Now don’t you bother any more about that advance.
I understand <i>perfectly</i>, and I’ll square old Rampole
somehow, even if it comes out of my director’s fees.’</p>

<p>‘Square old Rampole,’ repeated Mr Benfleet thoughtfully
as Adam went downstairs. It was fortunate, he reflected,
that none of the authors ever came across the senior
partner, that benign old gentleman, who once a week drove
up to board meetings from the country, whose chief interest
in the business was confined to the progress of a little book of
his own about bee-keeping, which they had published
twenty years ago and, though he did not know it, allowed
long ago to drop out of print. He often wondered in his
uneasy moments what he would find to say when Rampole
died.</p>

<hr/>

<p>It was about now that Adam remembered that he was
engaged to be married. The name of his young lady was
Nina Blount. So he went into a tube station to a telephone-box,
which smelt rather nasty, and rang her up.</p>

<p>‘Hullo.’</p>

<p>‘Hullo.’</p>

<p>‘May I speak to Miss Blount, please?’</p>

<p>‘I’ll just see if she’s in,’ said Miss Blount’s voice. ‘Who’s
speaking, please?’ She was always rather snobbish about the
fiction of having someone to answer the telephone.</p>

<p>‘Mr Fenwick-Symes.’</p>

<p>‘Oh.’</p>

<p>‘Adam, you know.... How are you, Nina?’</p>

<p>‘Well, I’ve got rather a pain just at present.’</p>

<p>‘Poor Nina, shall I come round and see you?’</p>

<p>‘No, don’t do that, darling, because I’m just going to
have a bath. Why don’t we dine together?’</p>

<p>‘Well, I asked Agatha Runcible to dinner.’</p>

<p>‘Why?’</p>

<p>‘She’d just had all her clothes taken off by some sailors.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, I know, it’s all in the evening paper to-night....
Well, I’ll tell you what. Let’s meet at Archie Schwert’s
party. Are you going?’</p>

<p>‘I rather said I would.’</p>

<p>‘That’s all right, then. Don’t dress up. No one will,
except Archie.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, I say. Nina, there’s one thing—I don’t think I shall
be able to marry you after all.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, <i>Adam</i>, you are a bore. Why not?’</p>

<p>‘They burnt my book.’</p>

<p>‘Beasts. Who did?’</p>

<p>‘I’ll tell you about it to-night.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, <i>do</i>. Good-bye, darling.’</p>

<p>‘Good-bye, my sweet.’</p>

<p>He hung up the receiver and left the telephone-box.
People had crowded into the Underground station for
shelter from the rain, and were shaking their umbrellas
and reading their evening papers. Adam could see the
headlines over their shoulders.</p>

<div class='lgc' style='margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;'>
<p>PEER’S DAUGHTER’S DOVER ORDEAL</p>
<p>SERIOUS ALLEGATIONS BY SOCIETY</p>
<p>BEAUTY</p>
<p>HON. A. RUNCIBLE SAYS ‘TOO</p>
<p>SHAMING’</p>
</div>

<p>‘Poor pretty,’ said an indignant old woman at his elbow.
‘Disgraceful, I calls it. And such a good sweet face. I see
her picture in the papers only yesterday. Nasty prying
minds. That’s what they got. And her poor father and all.
Look, Jane, there’s a piece about him, too. “Interviewed
at the Carlton Club this evening, Lord Chasm,” that’s her
dad, “refused to make a definite statement. ‘The matter
shall not be allowed to rest here,’ he said.” <i>And</i> quite right,
too, I says. You know I feels about that girl just as though
it was me own daughter. Seeing her picture so often and our
Sarah having done the back stairs, Tuesdays, at them flats
where her aunt used to live—the one as had that ’orrible
divorce last year.’</p>

<p>Adam bought a paper. He had just ten shillings left in the
world. It was too wet to walk, so he took a very crowded
tube train to Dover Street and hurried across in the rain to
Shepheard’s Hotel (which, for the purposes of the narrative,
may be assumed to stand at the corner of Hay Hill).</p>

<h2>Chapter Three</h2>

<p>Lottie Crump, proprietress of Shepheard’s Hotel, Dover
Street, attended invariably by two Cairn terriers, is a happy
reminder to us that the splendours of the Edwardian era
were not entirely confined to Lady Anchorage or Mrs Blackwater.
She is a fine figure of a woman, singularly unscathed
by any sort of misfortune and superbly oblivious of those
changes in the social order which agitate the more observant
<i>grandes dames</i> of her period. When the war broke out she
took down the signed photograph of the Kaiser and, with
some solemnity, hung it in the men-servants’ lavatory; it
was her one combative action; since then she has had her
worries—income-tax forms and drink restrictions and
young men whose fathers she used to know, who give her
bad cheques, but these have been soon forgotten; one can
go to Shepheard’s parched with modernity any day, if
Lottie likes one’s face, and still draw up, cool and uncontaminated,
great, healing draughts from the well of
Edwardian certainty.</p>

<p>Shepheard’s has a plain, neatly pointed brick front and
large, plain doorway. Inside it is like a country house. Lottie
is a great one for sales, and likes, whenever one of the
great houses of her day is being sold up, to take away something
for old times’ sake. There is a good deal too much
furniture at Shepheard’s, some of it rare, some of it
hideous beyond description; there is plenty of red plush and
red morocco and innumerable wedding presents of the
’eighties; in particular many of those massive, mechanical
devices covered with crests and monograms, and associated
in some way with cigars. It is the sort of house in which one
expects to find croquet mallets and polo sticks in the
bathroom, and children’s toys at the bottom of one’s chest of
drawers, and an estate map and an archery target—exuding
straw—and a bicycle and one of those walking-sticks which
turn into saws, somewhere in passages, between baize
doors, smelling of damp. (As a matter of fact, all you are
likely to find in your room at Lottie’s is an empty champagne
bottle or two and a crumpled camisole.)</p>

<p>The servants, like the furniture, are old and have seen
aristocratic service. Doge, the head waiter, who is hard of
hearing, partially blind, and tortured with gout, was once
a Rothschild’s butler. He had, in fact, on more than one
occasion in Father Rothschild’s youth, dandled him on his
knee, when he came with his father (at one time the
fifteenth richest man in the world) to visit his still richer
cousins, but it would be unlike him to pretend that he ever
really liked the embryo Jesuit who was ‘too clever by half’,
given to asking extraordinary questions, and endowed with
a penetrating acumen in the detection of falsehood and
exaggeration.</p>

<p>Besides Doge, there are innumerable old housemaids
always trotting about with cans of hot water and clean
towels. There is also a young Italian who does most of the
work and gets horribly insulted by Lottie, who once caught
him powdering his nose, and will not let him forget it.
Indeed, it is one of the few facts in Lottie’s recent experience
that seems always accessible.</p>

<p>Lottie’s parlour, in which most of the life of Shepheard’s
centres, contains a comprehensive collection of signed photographs.
Most of the male members of the royal families of
Europe are represented (except the ex-Emperor of Germany
who has not been reinstated, although there was a distinct
return of sentiment towards him on the occasion of his
second marriage). There are photographs of young men on
horses riding in steeple-chases, of elderly men leading in
the winners of ‘classic’ races, of horses alone and of young
men alone, dressed in tight, white collars or in the uniform
of the Brigade of Guards. There are caricatures by ‘Spy’,
and photographs cut from illustrated papers, many of them
with brief obituary notices, ‘killed in action’. There are
photographs of yachts in full sail and of elderly men in
yachting caps; there are some funny pictures of the earliest
kind of motor car. There are very few writers or painters
and no actors, for Lottie is true to the sound old snobbery of
pound sterling and strawberry leaves.</p>

<p>Lottie was standing in the hall abusing the Italian waiter
when Adam arrived.</p>

<p>‘Well,’ she said, ‘you are a stranger. Come along in.
We were just thinking about having a little drink. You’ll
find a lot of your friends here.’</p>

<p>She led Adam into the parlour, where they found several
men, none of whom Adam had ever seen before.</p>

<p>‘You all know Lord Thingummy, don’t you?’ said Lottie.</p>

<p>‘Mr Symes,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘Yes, dear, that’s what I said. Bless you, I knew you
before you were born. How’s your father? Not dead, is he?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, I’m afraid he is.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I never. I could tell you some things about him.
Now let me introduce you—that’s Mr What’s-his-name,
you remember him, don’t you? And over there in the corner,
that’s the Major, and there’s Mr What-d’you-call-him,
and that’s an American, and there’s the King of Ruritania.’</p>

<p>‘Alas, no longer,’ said a sad, bearded man.</p>

<p>‘Poor chap,’ said Lottie Crump, who always had a weak
spot for royalty, even when deposed. ‘It’s a shame. They
gave him the boot after the war. Hasn’t got a penny. Not
that he ever did have much. His wife’s locked up in a looney
house, too.’</p>

<p>‘Poor Maria Christina. It is true how Mrs Crump says.
Her brains, they are quite gone out. All the time she thinks
everyone is a bomb.’</p>

<p>‘It’s perfectly true, poor old girl,’ said Lottie with relish.
‘I drove the King down Saturday to see her ... (I won’t
have him travelling third class). It fair brought tears to my
eyes. Kept skipping about all the time, she did, dodging.
Thought they were throwing things at her.’</p>

<p>‘It is one strange thing, too,’ said the King. ‘All my
family they have bombs thrown at them, but the Queen,
never. My poor Uncle Joseph he blow all to bits one night at
the opera, and my sister she find three bombs in her bed.
But my wife, never. But one day her maid is brushing her
hair before dinner, and she said, “Madam,” she said, “the
cook has had lesson from the cook at the French Legation”—the
food at my home was not what you call <i>chic</i>. One day
it was mutton hot, then mutton cold, then the same mutton
hot again, but less nicer, not <i>chic</i>, you understand me—“he
has had lesson from the French cook,” the maid say, “and
he has made one big bomb as a surprise for your dinner party
to-night for the Swedish Minister.” Then the poor
Queen say “Oh”, like so, and since then always her poor
brains has was all no-how.’</p>

<p>The ex-King of Ruritania sighed heavily and lit a cigar.</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said Lottie, brushing aside a tear, ‘what about
a little drink? Here, you over there, your Honour Judge
What’s-your-name, how about a drink for the gentlemen?’</p>

<p>The American, who, like all the listeners, had been profoundly
moved by the ex-King’s recitation, roused himself
to bow and say, ‘I shall esteem it a great honour if His
Majesty and yourself, Mrs Crump, and these other good
gentlemen ...’</p>

<p>‘That’s the way,’ said Lottie. ‘Hi, there, where’s my
Fairy Prince? Powdering hisself again, I suppose. Come
here, Nancy, and put away the beauty cream.’</p>

<p>In came the waiter.</p>

<p>‘Bottle of wine,’ said Lottie, ‘with Judge Thingummy
there.’ (Unless specified in detail, all drinks are champagne
in Lottie’s parlour. There is also a mysterious game played
with dice which always ends with someone giving a bottle
of wine to every one in the room, but Lottie has an equitable
soul and she generally sees to it, in making up the bills, that
the richest people pay for everything.)</p>

<p>After the third or fourth bottle of wine Lottie said,
‘Who d’you think we’ve got dining upstairs to-night? <span class='it'>Prime
Minister.</span>’</p>

<p>‘Me, I have never liked Prime Ministers. They talk and
talk and then they talk more. “Sir, you must sign that.”
“Sir, you must go here and there.” “Sir, you must do up
that button before you give audience to the black plenipotentiary
from Liberia.” Pah! After the war my people
give me the bird, yes, but they throw my Prime Minister
out of the window, bump right bang on the floor. Ha, ha.’</p>

<p>‘He ain’t alone either,’ said Lottie with a terrific wink.</p>

<p>‘What, Sir James Brown?’ said the Major, shocked in spite
of himself. ‘I don’t believe it.’</p>

<p>‘No, name of Outrage.’</p>

<p>‘He’s not Prime Minister.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, he is. I saw it in the paper.’</p>

<p>‘No, he’s not. He went out of office last week.’</p>

<p>‘Well I never. How they keep changing. I’ve no patience
with it. Doge. Doge. What’s the Prime Minister’s name?’</p>

<p>‘Beg pardon, mum.’</p>

<p>‘What’s the name of the Prime Minister?</p>

<p>‘Not to-night, I don’t think, mum, not as I’ve been informed
anyway.’</p>

<p>‘What’s the name of the Prime Minister, you stupid old
man?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, I beg your pardon, mum. I didn’t quite hear you.
Sir James Brown, mum, Bart. A very nice gentleman, so
I’ve been told. Conservative, I’ve heard said. Gloucestershire
they come from, I think.’</p>

<p>‘There, what did I say?’ said Lottie triumphantly.</p>

<p>‘It is one very extraordinary thing, your British Constitution,’
said the ex-King of Ruritania. ‘All the time when
I was young they taught me nothing but British Constitution.
My tutor had been a master at your Eton school. And
now when I come to England always there is a different
Prime Minister and no one knows which is which.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, sir,’ said the Major, ‘that’s because of the Liberal
Party.’</p>

<p>‘Liberals? Yes. We, too, had Liberals. I tell you something
now, I had a gold fountain-pen. My godfather, the
good Archduke of Austria, give me one gold fountain-pen
with eagles on him. I loved my gold fountain-pen.’ Tears
stood in the King’s eyes. Champagne was a rare luxury to
him now. ‘I loved very well my pen with the little eagles.
And one day there was a Liberal Minister. A Count Tampen,
one man, Mrs Crump, of exceedingly evilness. He come to
talk to me and he stood at my little escritoire and he thump
and talk too much about somethings I not understand, and
when he go—where was my gold fountain-pen with eagles—gone
too.’</p>

<p>‘Poor old King,’ said Lottie. ‘I tell you what. You have
another drink.’</p>

<p>‘... Esteem it a great honour,’ said the American, ‘if
your Majesty and these gentlemen and Mrs Crump ...’</p>

<p>‘Doge, tell my little love-bird to come hopping in ...
you there, Judge wants another bottle of wine.’</p>

<p>‘... Should honour it a great esteem ... esteem it a
great honour if Mrs Majesty and these gentlemen and His
Crump ...’</p>

<p>‘That’s all right, Judge. Another bottle coming.’</p>

<p>‘... Should esteem it a great Crump if his honour and
these Majesties and Mrs Gentlemen ...’</p>

<p>‘Yes, yes, that’s all right, Judge. Don’t let him fall down,
boys. Bless me, how these Americans do drink.’</p>

<p>‘... I should Crump it a great Majesty if Mrs Esteem
...’</p>

<p>And his Honour Judge Skimp of the Federal High Court
began to laugh rather a lot. (It must be remembered in all
these people’s favour that none of them had yet dined.)</p>

<p>Now there was a very bland, natty, moustachioed young
man sitting there who had been drinking away quietly in
the corner without talking to anyone except for an occasional
‘Cheerio’ to Judge Skimp. Suddenly he got up and
said:</p>

<p>‘Bet-you-can’t-do-this.’</p>

<p>He put three halfpennies on the table, moved them about
very deliberately for a bit, and then looked up with an expression
of pride. ‘Only touched each halfpenny five times,
and changed their positions twice,’ he said. ‘Do-it-again if
you like.’</p>

<p>‘Well, isn’t he a clever boy?’ said Lottie. ‘Wherever did
they teach you that?’</p>

<p>‘Chap-in-a-train showed me,’ he said.</p>

<p>‘It didn’t look very hard,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘Just-you-try. Bet-you-anything-you-like you can’t do it.’</p>

<p>‘How much will you bet?’ Lottie loved this kind of
thing.</p>

<p>‘Anything-you-like. Five hundred pounds.’</p>

<p>‘Go on,’ said Lottie. ‘You do it. He’s got lots of money.’</p>

<p>‘All right,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>He took the halfpennies and moved them about just as
the young man had done. When he finished he said, ‘How’s
that?’</p>

<p>‘Well I’m jiggered,’ said the young man. ‘Never saw
anyone do it like that before. I’ve won a lot of money this
week with that trick. Here you are.’ And he took out a note-case
and gave Adam a five-hundred-pound note. Then he sat
down in his corner again.</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said Lottie with approval, ‘that’s sporting. Give
the boys a drink for that.’</p>

<p>So they all had another drink.</p>

<p>Presently the young man stood up again.</p>

<p>‘Toss you double-or-quits,’ he said. ‘Best-out-of-three.’</p>

<p>‘All right,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>They tossed twice and Adam won both times.</p>

<p>‘Well I’m jiggered,’ said the young man, handing over
another note. ‘You’re a lucky chap.’</p>

<p>‘He’s got pots of money,’ said Lottie. ‘A thousand pounds
is nothing to him.’</p>

<p>She liked to feel like that about all her guests. Actually
in this young man’s case she was wrong. He happened to
have all that money in his pocket because he had just sold
out his few remaining securities to buy a new motor car.
So next day he bought a second-hand motor bicycle instead.</p>

<p>Adam felt a little dizzy, so he had another drink.</p>

<p>‘D’you mind if I telephone?’ he said.</p>

<p>He rang up Nina Blount.</p>

<p>‘Is that Nina?’</p>

<p>‘Adam, dear, you’re tight already.’</p>

<p>‘How d’you know?’</p>

<p>‘I can hear it. What is it? I’m just going out to dinner.’</p>

<p>‘I just rang up to say that it’s all right about our getting
married. I’ve got a thousand pounds.’</p>

<p>‘Oh good. How?’</p>

<p>‘I’ll tell you when we meet. Where are you dining?’</p>

<p>‘Ritz. Archie. Darling. I <i>am</i> glad about our getting
married.’</p>

<p>‘So am I. But don’t let’s get intense about it.’</p>

<p>‘I wasn’t, and anyway you’re tight.’</p>

<p>He went back to the parlour. Miss Runcible had arrived
and was standing in the hall very much dressed up.</p>

<p>‘Who’s that tart?’ asked Lottie.</p>

<p>‘That’s not a tart, Lottie, that’s Agatha Runcible.’</p>

<p>‘Looks like a tart. How do you do, my dear, come in.
We’re just thinking of having a little drink. You know
everyone here, of course, don’t you? That’s the King with
the beard.... No, dearie, the King of Ruritania. You
didn’t mind my taking you for a tart, did you, dear? You
look so like one, got up like that. Of course, I can see you
aren’t now.’</p>

<p>‘<i>My dear</i>,’ said Miss Runcible, ‘if you’d seen me this
afternoon ...’ and she began to tell Lottie Crump about
the Customs House.</p>

<p>‘What would you do if you suddenly got a thousand
pounds?’ Adam asked.</p>

<p>‘A thousand <i>pound</i>,’ said the King, his eyes growing
dreamy at this absurd vision. ‘Well, first I should buy a
house and a motor car and a yacht and a new pair of gloves,
and then I would start one little newspaper in my country
to say that I must come back and be the King, and then I
don’t know what I do, but I have such fun and grandness
again.’</p>

<p>‘But you can’t do all that with a thousand pounds, you
know, sir.’</p>

<p>‘No ... can’t I not? ... not with thousand pound....
Oh, well, then I think I buy a gold pen with eagles on him
like the Liberals stole.’</p>

<p>‘I know what I’d do,’ said the Major. ‘I’d put it on a
horse.’</p>

<p>‘What horse?’</p>

<p>‘I can tell you a likely outsider for the November
Handicap. Horse named Indian Runner. It’s at twenty to one
at present, and the odds are likely to lengthen. Now if you
were to put a thousand on him to win and he won, why you’d
be rich, wouldn’t you?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, so I would. How marvellous. D’you know, I think
I’ll do that. It’s a <i>very</i> good idea. How can I do it?’</p>

<p>‘Just you give me the thousand and I’ll arrange it.’</p>

<p>‘I say, that’s awfully nice of you.’</p>

<p>‘Not at all.’</p>

<p>‘No, really, I think that’s frightfully nice of you. Look,
here’s the money. Have a drink, won’t you?’</p>

<p>‘No, you have one with me.’</p>

<p>‘I said it first.’</p>

<p>‘Let’s both have one, then.’</p>

<p>‘Wait a minute though, I must go and telephone about
this.’</p>

<p>He rang up the Ritz and got on to Nina.</p>

<p>‘Darling, you do telephone a lot, don’t you?’</p>

<p>‘Nina, I’ve something very important to say.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, darling.’</p>

<p>‘Nina, have you heard of a horse called Indian Runner?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, I think so. Why?’</p>

<p>‘What sort of a horse is it?’</p>

<p>‘My dear, quite the worst sort of horse. Mary Mouse’s
mother owns it.’</p>

<p>‘Not a good horse?’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>‘Not likely to win the November Handicap, I mean.’</p>

<p>‘Quite sure not to. I don’t suppose it’ll run even. Why?’</p>

<p>‘I say, Nina, d’you know I don’t think we shall be able to
get married after all.’</p>

<p>‘Why not, my sweet?’</p>

<p>‘You see, I’ve put my thousand pounds on Indian
Runner.’</p>

<p>‘That was silly. Can’t you get it back?’</p>

<p>‘I gave it to a Major.’</p>

<p>‘What sort of a Major?’</p>

<p>‘Rather a drunk one. I don’t know his name.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I should try and catch him. I must go back and
eat now. Good-bye.’</p>

<p>But when he got back to Lottie’s parlour the Major was
gone.</p>

<p>‘What Major?’ said Lottie, when he asked about him.
‘I never saw a Major.’</p>

<p>‘The one you introduced me to in the corner.’</p>

<p>‘How d’you know he’s a Major?’</p>

<p>‘You said he was.’</p>

<p>‘My dear boy, I’ve never seen him before. Now I come to
think of it, he did look like a Major, didn’t he? But this
sweet little girlie here is telling me a story. Go on, my
dear. I can hardly bear to hear it, it’s so wicked.’</p>

<p>While Miss Runcible finished her story (which began to
sound each time she told it more and more like the most
lubricious kind of anti-Turkish propaganda) the ex-King of
Ruritania told Adam about a Major <i>he</i> had known, who
had come from Prussia to reorganize the Ruritanian Army.
He had disappeared south, taking with him all the mess
plate of the Royal Guard, and the Lord Chamberlain’s
wife, and a valuable pair of candlesticks from the Chapel
Royal.</p>

<p>By the time Miss Runcible had finished, Lottie was in a
high state of indignation.</p>

<p>‘The very idea of it,’ she said. ‘The dirty hounds. And
I used to know your poor father, too, before you were born
<i>or</i> thought of. I’ll talk to the Prime Minister about this,’
she said, taking up the telephone. ‘Give me Outrage,’ she
said to the exchange boy. ‘He’s up in number twelve with a
Japanese.’</p>

<p>‘Outrage isn’t Prime Minister, Lottie.’</p>

<p>‘Of course he is. Didn’t Doge say so.... Hullo, is that
Outrage? This is Lottie. A fine chap you are, I don’t think.
Tearing the clothes off the back of a poor innocent girl.’</p>

<p>Lottie prattled on.</p>

<p>Mr Outrage had finished dinner, and, as a matter of fact,
the phrasing of this accusation was not wholly inappropriate
to his mood. It was some minutes before he began to realize
that all this talk was only about Miss Runcible. By that
time Lottie’s flow of invective had come to an end, but she
finished finely.</p>

<p>‘Outrage your name, and Outrage your nature,’ she
said, banging down the receiver. ‘And that’s what I think
of <i>him</i>. Now how about a little drink?’</p>

<p>But her party was breaking up. The Major was gone.
Judge Skimp was sleeping, his fine white hair in an ash-tray.
Adam and Miss Runcible were talking about where
they would dine. Soon only the King remained. He gave
her his arm with a grace he had acquired many years ago;
far away in his sunny little palace, under a great chandelier
which scattered with stars of light like stones from a broken
necklace, a crimson carpet woven with a pattern of crowned
ciphers.</p>

<p>So Lottie and the King went in to dinner together.</p>

<p>Upstairs in No. 12, which is a suite of notable grandeur,
Mr Outrage was sliding back down the path of self-confidence
he had so laboriously climbed. He really would have
brought matters to a crisis if it had not been for that telephone,
he told himself, but now the Baroness was saying she
was sure he was busy, must be wanting her to go: would he
order her car.</p>

<p>It was so difficult. For a European the implications of an
invitation to dinner <i>tête-à-tête</i> in a private room at Shepheard’s
were definitely clear. Her acceptance on the first
night of his return to England had thrown him into a
flutter of expectation. But all through dinner she had been
so self-possessed, so supremely social. Yet, surely, just before
the telephone rang, surely then, when they left the table
and moved to the fire, there had been <i>something</i> in the
atmosphere. But you never know with Orientals. He clutched
his knees and said in a voice which sounded very extraordinary
to him, must she go, it was lovely after a fortnight,
and then, desperately, he had thought of her in Paris such
a lot. (Oh, for words, words! That massed treasury of speech
that was his to squander at will, to send bowling and spinning
in golden pieces over the floor of the House of Commons;
that glorious largesse of vocables he cast far and wide,
in ringing handfuls about his constituency!)</p>

<p>The little Baroness Yoshiwara, her golden hands clasped
in the lap of her golden Paquin frock, sat where she had
been sent, more puzzled than Mr Outrage, waiting for
orders. What did the clever Englishman want? If he was
busy with his telephone, why did he not send her away;
tell her another time to come: if he wanted to be loved,
why did he not tell her to come over to him? Why did he
not pick her out of her red plush chair and sit her on his
knee? Was she, perhaps, looking ugly to-night? She had
thought not. It was so hard to know what these Occidentals
wanted.</p>

<p>Then the telephone rang again.</p>

<p>‘Will you hold on a minute? Father Rothschild wants to
speak to you,’ said a voice. ‘... Is that you, Outrage? Will
you be good enough to come round and see me as soon as
you can? There are several things which I must discuss with
you.’</p>

<p>‘Really, Rothschild ... I don’t see why I should. I have
a guest.’</p>

<p>‘The baroness had better return immediately. The waiter
who brought you your coffee has a brother at the Japanese
Embassy.’</p>

<p>‘Good God, has he? But why don’t you go and worry
Brown? He’s P.M., you know, not me.’</p>

<p>‘You will be in office to-morrow.... As soon as possible,
please, at my usual address.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, all right.’</p>

<p>‘Why, of course.’</p>

<h2>Chapter Four</h2>

<p>At Archie Schwert’s party the fifteenth Marquess of
Vanburgh, Earl Vanburgh de Brendon, Baron Brendon,
Lord of the Five Isles and Hereditary Grand Falconer to the
Kingdom of Connaught, said to the eighth Earl of Balcairn,
Viscount Erdinge, Baron Cairn of Balcairn, Red Knight of
Lancaster, Count of the Holy Roman Empire and Chenonceaux
Herald to the Duchy of Aquitaine, ‘Hullo,’ he said.
‘Isn’t this a repulsive party? What are you going to say about
it?’ for they were both of them, as it happened, gossip
writers for the daily papers.</p>

<p>‘I’ve just telephoned my story through,’ said Lord Balcairn.
‘And now I’m going, thank God.’</p>

<p>‘I can’t think of what to say,’ said Lord Vanburgh. ‘My
editress said yesterday she was tired of seeing the same
names over and over again—and here they are again, all
of them. There’s Nina Blount’s engagement being broken
off, but she’s not got any publicity value to speak of. Agatha
Runcible’s usually worth a couple of paragraphs, but they’re
featuring her as a front-page news story to-morrow over
this Customs House business.’</p>

<p>‘I made rather a good thing over Edward Throbbing being
in a log shanty in Canada which he built himself with the help
of one Red Indian. I thought that was fairly good because,
you see, I could contrast that with Miles being dressed as
a Red Indian to-night, don’t you think so, or don’t you?’</p>

<p>‘I say, that’s rather good, may I use it?’</p>

<p>‘Well, you can have the shanty, but the Red Indian’s mine.’</p>

<p>‘Where is he actually?’</p>

<p>‘Heaven knows, Government House at Ottawa, I think.’</p>

<p>‘Who’s that awful-looking woman? I’m sure she’s famous
in some way. It’s not Mrs Melrose Ape, is it? I heard she
was coming.’</p>

<p>‘Who?’</p>

<p>‘That one. Making up to Nina.’</p>

<p>‘Good lord, no. She’s no one. Mrs Panrast she’s called now.’</p>

<p>‘She seems to know you.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, I’ve known her all my life. As a matter of fact,
she’s my mother.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, how too shaming. D’you mind if I put that in?’</p>

<p>‘I’d sooner you didn’t. The family can’t bear her. She’s
been divorced twice since then, you know.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, of course not, I quite understand.’</p>

<p>Five minutes later he was busy at the telephone dictating
his story. ‘... Orchid stop, new paragraph. One of
the most striking women in the room was Mrs Panrast—P-A-N-R-A-S-T-,
no, T for telephone, you know—formerly
Countess of Balcairn. She dresses with that severely
masculine chic, italics, which American women know so
well how to assume, stop. Her son, comma, the present
Earl, comma, was with her, stop. Lord Balcairn is one of
the few young men about town....</p>

<p>‘... the Hon. Miles Malpractice was dressed as a Red
Indian. He is at present living in the house of his brother,
Lord Throbbing, at which yesterday’s party was held. His
choice of costume was particularly—what shall I say?
hullo, yes—was particularly piquant, italics, since the latest
reports of Lord Throbbing say that he is living in a log
shack in Canada which he built with his own hands, aided
by one Red Indian servant, stop....’</p>

<hr/>

<p>You see, that was the kind of party Archie Schwert’s
party was.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Miss Mouse (in a very enterprising frock by Cheruit) sat
on a chair with her eyes popping out of her head. She never
<i>could</i> get used to so much excitement, never. To-night
she had brought a little friend with her—a Miss Brown—because
it was so much more fun if one had some one to talk
to. It was too thrilling to see all that dull money her father
had amassed, metamorphosed in this way into so much
glitter and noise and so many bored young faces. Archie
Schwert, as he passed, champagne bottle in hand, paused to
say, ‘How are you, Mary darling? Quite all right?’</p>

<p>‘That’s Archie Schwert,’ said Miss Mouse to Miss Brown.
‘Isn’t he too clever?’</p>

<p>‘Is he?’ said Miss Brown, who would have liked a drink,
but didn’t know quite how to set about it. ‘You <i>are</i> lucky
to know such amusing people, Mary darling. I never see
any one.’</p>

<p>‘Wasn’t the invitation clever? Johnnie Hoop wrote it.’</p>

<p>‘Well, yes, I suppose it was. But you know, was it dreadful
of me, I hadn’t heard of any of the names.’<a id='rA'/><a href='#fA' style='text-decoration:none'><sup><span style='font-size:0.9em'>[A]</span></sup></a></p>

<hr/>

<div class='footnote'>
<p class='footnote'>
<span class='footnote-id' id='fA'><a href='#rA'>[A]</a></span>

Perhaps it should be explained—there were at this time three
sorts of formal invitation card; there was the nice sensible copybook
hand sort with a name and <i>At Home</i> and a date and time and
address; then there was the sort that came from Chelsea, <span class='it'>Noel and
Audrey are having a little whoopee on Saturday evening: do please
come and bring a bottle too, if you can</span>; and finally there was the
sort that Johnnie Hoop used to adapt from <i>Blast</i> and Marinetti’s
<i>Futurist Manifesto</i>. These had two columns of close print; in one
was a list of all the things Johnnie hated, and in the other all the
things he thought he liked. Most of the parties which Miss Mouse
financed had invitations written by Johnnie Hoop.</p>

</div>

<hr/>

<p>‘My dear, of course you have,’ said Miss Mouse, feeling
somewhere in her depths—those unplumbed places in Miss
Mouse’s soul—a tiny, most unaccustomed flicker of superiority;
for she had gone through that invitation word by
word in papa’s library some days ago and knew all about it.</p>

<p>She almost wished in this new mood of exaltation that
she had come to the party in fancy dress. It was called a
Savage party, that is to say that Johnnie Hoop had written
on the invitation that they were to come dressed as savages.
Numbers of them had done so; Johnnie himself in a mask
and black gloves represented the Maharanee of Pukkapore,
somewhat to the annoyance of the Maharajah, who happened
to drop in. The real aristocracy, the younger members
of those two or three great brewing families which rule
London, had done nothing about it. They had come on from
a dance and stood in a little group by themselves, aloof,
amused but not amusing. Pit-a-pat went the heart of Miss
Mouse. How she longed to tear down her dazzling frock to
her hips and dance like a Bacchante before them all. One
day she would surprise them all, thought Miss Mouse.</p>

<hr/>

<p>There was a famous actor making jokes (but it was not
so much what he said as the way he said it that made the
people laugh who did laugh). ‘I’ve come to the party as a
wild widower,’ he said. They were that kind of joke—but,
of course, he made a droll face when he said it.</p>

<p>Miss Runcible had changed into Hawaiian costume and
was the life and soul of the evening.</p>

<p>She had heard some one say something about an Independent
Labour Party, and was furious that she had not been
asked.</p>

<p>There were two men with a lot of explosive powder
taking photographs in another room. Their flashes and
bangs had rather a disquieting effect on the party, causing
a feeling of tension, because every one looked negligent
and said what a bore the papers were, and how <i>too</i> like
Archie to let the photographers come, but most of them as a
matter of fact wanted dreadfully to be photographed and
the others were frozen with unaffected terror that they
might be taken unawares and then their mamas would
know where they had been when they said they were at
the Bicesters’ dance, and then there would be a row again,
which was so <i>exhausting</i>, if nothing else.</p>

<p>There were Adam and Nina getting rather sentimental.</p>

<p>‘D’you know,’ she said, pulling out a lump, ‘I’d quite
made up my mind that your hair was dark?’ Archie Schwert,
pausing with a bottle of champagne, said, ‘Don’t be
so sadistic, Nina.’</p>

<p>‘Go away, hog’s rump,’ said Adam, in Cockney, adding,
in softer tones, ‘Are you disappointed?’</p>

<p>‘Well, no, but it’s rather disconcerting getting engaged
to some one with dark hair and finding it’s fair.’</p>

<p>‘Anyway, we aren’t engaged any more, are we—or are
we?’</p>

<p>‘I’m not sure that we’re not. How much money <i>have</i> you,
Adam?’</p>

<p>‘Literally, none, my dear. Poor Agatha had to pay for
dinner as it was, and God knows what I’m going to do about
Lottie Crump’s bill.’</p>

<p>‘Of course, you know—Adam, don’t fall asleep—there’s
always papa. I believe he’s really much richer than he looks.
He might give us some money until your books start
paying.’</p>

<p>‘You know, if I wrote a book a month I should be free
of that contract in a year.... I hadn’t thought of that
before. I don’t at all see why I shouldn’t do that, do you?
... or do you?’</p>

<p>‘Of course not, darling. I’ll tell you what. We’ll go down
and see papa to-morrow, shall we?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, that would be divine, darling.’</p>

<p>‘Adam, don’t go to sleep.’</p>

<p>‘Sorry, darling, what I meant was that that would be
divine.’</p>

<p>And he went to sleep for a little, with his head in her
lap.</p>

<p>‘Pretty as a picture,’ said Archie, in Cockney, passing
with a bottle of champagne in his hand.</p>

<p>‘Wake up, Adam,’ said Nina, pulling out more hair.
‘It’s time to go.’</p>

<p>‘That would be divine.... I say, have I been asleep?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, for hours and hours. You looked rather sweet.’</p>

<p>‘And you sat there.... I say, Nina, you are getting
sentimental.... Where are we going?’</p>

<p>There were about a dozen people left at the party; that
hard kernel of gaiety that never breaks. It was about three
o’clock.</p>

<p>‘Let’s go to Lottie Crump’s and have a drink,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>So they all got into two taxicabs and drove across Berkeley
Square to Dover Street. But at Shepheard’s the night porter
said that Mrs Crump had just gone to bed. He thought that
Judge Skimp was still up with some friends; would they
like to join them? They went up to Judge Skimp’s suite, but
there had been a disaster there with a chandelier that one of
his young ladies had tried to swing on. They were bathing
her forehead with champagne; two of them were asleep.</p>

<p>So Adam’s party went out again, into the rain.</p>

<p>‘Of course, there’s always the Ritz,’ said Archie. ‘I
believe the night porter can usually get one a drink.’ But
he said it in the sort of voice that made all the others say,
no, the Ritz was too, too boring at that time of night.</p>

<p>They went to Agatha Runcible’s house, which was quite
near, but she found that she’d lost her latchkey, so that
was no good. Soon some one would say those fatal words,
‘Well, I think it’s time for me to go to bed. Can I give any
one a lift to Knightsbridge?’ and the party would be over.</p>

<p>But instead a little breathless voice said, ‘Why don’t
you come to <i>my</i> house?’</p>

<p>It was Miss Brown.</p>

<p>So they all got into taxicabs again and drove rather a
long way to Miss Brown’s house. She turned on the lights
in a sombre dining-room and gave them glasses of whisky
and soda. (She turned out to be rather a good hostess,
though over-zealous.) Then Miles said he wanted something
to eat, so they all went downstairs into a huge kitchen lined
with every shape of pot and pan and found some eggs and
some bacon and Miss Brown cooked them. Then they had
some more whisky upstairs and Adam feel asleep again.
Presently Vanburgh said, ‘D’you mind if I use the telephone?
I must just send the rest of my story to the paper.’
Miss Brown took him to a study that looked almost like an
office, and he dictated the rest of his column, and then he
came back and had some more whisky.</p>

<p>It was a lovely evening for Miss Brown. Flushed with
successful hospitality, she trotted from guest to guest,
offering here a box of matches, there a cigar, there a fruit
from the enormous gilt dishes on the sideboard. To think
that all these brilliant people, whom she had heard so much
about, with what envy, from Miss Mouse, should be here in
papa’s dining-room, calling her ‘my dear’ and ‘darling’. And
when at last they said they really had to go, Miss Runcible
said, ‘Well, <i>I</i> can’t go, because I’ve lost my latchkey. D’you
mind awfully if I sleep here?’</p>

<p>Miss Brown, her heart in her mouth, but in the most
natural way possible, said, ‘Of course not, Agatha darling,
that would be divine.’</p>

<p>And then Miss Runcible said, ‘How too divine of you,
darling.’</p>

<p><i>Rapture!</i></p>

<hr/>

<p>At half-past nine the next morning the Brown family
came down to breakfast in the dining-room.</p>

<p>There were four quiet girls (of whom the Miss Brown
who had given the party was the youngest), their brother
worked in a motor shop and had had to get off early.
They were seated at the table when their mama came
down.</p>

<p>‘Now, children,’ she said, ‘do try to remember to talk
to your father at breakfast. He was quite hurt yesterday.
He feels out of things. It’s so easy to bring him into the
conversation if you take a little trouble, and he does so
enjoy hearing about everything.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, Mama,’ they said. ‘We do try, you know.’</p>

<p>‘And what was the Bicesters’ dance like, Jane?’ she said,
pouring out some coffee. ‘Did you have a good time?’</p>

<p>‘It was just too divine,’ said the youngest Miss
Brown.</p>

<p>‘It was <i>what</i>, Jane?’</p>

<p>‘I mean it was <i>lovely</i>, Mama.’</p>

<p>‘So I should think. You girls are very lucky nowadays.
There were not nearly so many dances when I was your
age. Perhaps two a week in the season, you know, but <i>none</i>
before Christmas ever.’</p>

<p>‘Mama.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, Jane.’</p>

<p>‘Mama. I asked a girl to stay the night.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, dear. When? We’re rather full up, you know.’</p>

<p>‘Last night, Mama.’</p>

<p>‘What an extraordinary thing to do. Did she accept?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, she’s here now.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Well</i>.... Ambrose, will you tell Mrs Sparrow to put
on another egg?’</p>

<p>‘I’m very sorry, my lady, Mrs Sparrow can’t understand
it, but there <i>are</i> no eggs this morning. She thinks there
must have been burglars.’</p>

<p>‘Nonsense, Ambrose, who ever heard of burglars coming
into a house to steal eggs?’</p>

<p>‘The shells were all over the floor, my lady.’</p>

<p>‘I see. That’s all, thank you, Ambrose. Well, Jane, has
your guest eaten all our eggs too?’</p>

<p>‘Well, I’m afraid she has ... at least ... I mean.’</p>

<p>At this moment Agatha Runcible came down to breakfast.
She was not looking her best really in the morning
light.</p>

<p>‘Good morning, all,’ she said in Cockney. ‘I’ve found the
right room at last. D’you know, I popped into a study or
something. There was a sweet old boy sitting at a desk.
He <i>did</i> look surprised to see me. Was it your papa?’</p>

<p>‘This is Mama,’ said Jane.</p>

<p>‘How are you?’ said Miss Runcible. ‘I say, I think it’s
quite too sweet of you to let me come down to breakfast like
this.’ (It must be remembered that she was still in Hawaiian
costume.) ‘Are you sure you’re not <i>furious</i> with me?
All this is really much more embarrassing for <i>me</i>, isn’t it,
don’t you think ... or don’t you?’</p>

<p>‘Do you take tea or coffee?’ at last Jane’s mother managed
to say. ‘Jane, dear, give your friend some breakfast.’ For in
the course of a long public life she had formed the opinion
that a judicious offer of food eased most social situations.</p>

<p>Then Jane’s father came in.</p>

<p>‘Martha, the most extraordinary thing! ... I think I
must be losing my reason. I was in my study just now going
over that speech for this afternoon, when suddenly the door
opened and in came a sort of dancing Hottentot woman
half-naked. It just said, “Oh, how shy-making,” and then
disappeared, and ... oh ...’ For he had suddenly caught
sight of Miss Runcible ‘... oh ... how do you do? ...
How ...’</p>

<p>‘I don’t think you have met my husband before.’</p>

<p>‘Only for a second,’ said Miss Runcible.</p>

<p>‘I hope you slept well,’ said Jane’s father desperately.</p>

<p>‘Martha never told me we had a guest. Forgive me if I
appeared inhospitable ... I—er ... Oh, why doesn’t somebody
else say something.’</p>

<p>Miss Runcible, too, was feeling the strain. She picked up
the morning paper.</p>

<p>‘Here’s something terribly funny,’ she said, by way of
making conversation. ‘Shall I read it to you?’</p>

<p>‘ “<i>Midnight Orgies at No. 10.</i>” My dear, isn’t that divine?
Listen, “<span class='it'>What must be the most extraordinary party of the
little season took place in the small hours of this morning at
No. 10, Downing Street. At about 4 a.m. the policemen who
are always posted outside the Prime Minister’s residence were
surprised to witness</span>”—Isn’t this too amusing—“<span class='it'>the arrival
of a fleet of taxis, from which emerged a gay throng in
exotic fancy dress</span>”—How I should have loved to have seen
it. Can’t you imagine what they were like?—“<span class='it'>the hostess
of what was described by one of the guests as the brightest
party the Bright Young People have yet given, was no other
than Miss Jane Brown, the youngest of the Prime Minister’s
four lovely daughters. The Honourable Agatha ...</span>” Why,
what an extraordinary thing.... Oh, my God!’</p>

<p>Suddenly light came flooding in on Miss Runcible’s mind
as once when, in her débutante days, she had gone behind
the scenes at a charity matinée, and returning had stepped
through the wrong door and found herself in a blaze of
flood-lights on the stage in the middle of the last act of
<i>Othello</i>. ‘Oh, my God!’ she said, looking round the Brown
breakfast table. ‘Isn’t that just too bad of Vanburgh. He’s
always doing that kind of thing. It really would serve him
right if we complained and he lost his job, don’t you think
so, Sir James ... or ... don’t you?’</p>

<p>Miss Runcible paused and met the eyes of the Brown
family once more.</p>

<p>‘Oh, dear,’ she said, ‘this really is all too bogus.’</p>

<p>Then she turned round and, trailing garlands of equatorial
flowers, fled out of the room and out of the house to
the huge delight and profit of the crowd of reporters and
Press photographers who were already massed round the
historic front door.</p>

<h2>Chapter Five</h2>

<p>Adam woke up feeling terribly ill. He rang his bell once
or twice, but nobody came. Later he woke up again and
rang the bell. The Italian waiter appeared, undulating
slightly in the doorway. Adam ordered breakfast. Lottie
came in and sat on his bed.</p>

<p>‘Had a nice breakfast, dear?’ she said.</p>

<p>‘Not yet,’ said Adam. ‘I’ve only just woken up.’</p>

<p>‘That’s right,’ said Lottie. ‘Nothing like a nice breakfast.
There was a young lady for you on the ’phone, but I
can’t remember what it was she said at the minute. We’ve
all been upside down this morning. Such a fuss. Had the
police in, we have, ever since I don’t know what time, drinking
up my wine and asking questions and putting their noses
where they’re not wanted. All because Flossie must needs
go and swing on the chandelier. She never had any sense,
Flossie. Well, she’s learned her lesson now, poor girl.
Whoever heard of such a thing—swinging on a chandelier.
Poor Judge What’s-his-name is in a terrible state about it.
I said to him it’s not so much the price of the chandelier, I
said. What money can make, money can mend, I said, and
that’s the truth, isn’t it, dear? But what I mind, I said, is
having a death in the house and all the fuss. It doesn’t do
<i>any one</i> any good having people killing theirselves in a
house like Flossie did. Now what may <i>you</i> want, my Italian
queen?’ said Lottie as the waiter came in with a tray, the
smell of kippers contending with <i>nuit de Noel</i> rather disagreeably.</p>

<p>‘Gentleman’s breakfast,’ said the waiter.</p>

<p>‘And how many <i>more</i> breakfasts do you think he wants,
I should like to know? He’s had his breakfast hours ago
while you were powdering your nose downstairs, haven’t
you, dear?’</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Adam, ‘as a matter of fact, no.’</p>

<p>‘There, do you hear what the gentleman says? <i>He</i>
doesn’t want two breakfasts. Don’t stand there wiggling
your behind at me. Take it away quick or I’ll catch you
such a smack.... That’s just the way—once you get the
police in every one gets all upset. There’s that boy brings
you two breakfasts and I dare say there’s some poor fellow
along the passage somewhere who hasn’t had any breakfast
at all. You can’t get anywhere without a nice breakfast.
Half the young fellows as come here now don’t have anything
except a <i>cachet Faivre</i> and some orange juice. It’s
not right,’ said Lottie, ‘and I’ve spoken to that boy about
using scent twenty times if I’ve spoken once.’</p>

<p>The waiter’s head appeared, and with it another wave of
<i>nuit de Noel</i>.</p>

<p>‘If you please, madam, the inspectors want to speak to
you downstairs, madam.’</p>

<p>‘All right, my little bird of paradise, I’ll be there.’</p>

<p>Lottie trotted away and the waiter came sidling back
bearing his tray of kippers and leering at Adam with a horrible
intimacy.</p>

<p>‘Turn on my bath, will you, please,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘Alas, there is a gentleman asleep in the bath. Shall I
wake him?’</p>

<p>‘No, it doesn’t matter.’</p>

<p>‘Will that be all, sir?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, thank you.’</p>

<p>The waiter stood about fingering the brass knobs at the
end of the bed, smiling ingratiatingly. Then he produced
from under his coat a gardenia, slightly browned at the
edges. (He had found it in an evening coat he had just been
brushing.)</p>

<p>Would the signor perhaps like a buttonhole? ...
Madame Crump was so severe ... it was nice sometimes
to be able to have a talk with the gentlemen ...</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Adam. ‘Go away.’ For he had a headache.</p>

<p>The waiter sighed deeply, and walked with pettish steps
to the door; sighed again and took the gardenia to the
gentleman in the bathroom.</p>

<p>Adam ate some breakfast. No kipper, he reflected, is ever
as good as it smells; how this too earthly contact with flesh
and bone spoiled the first happy exhilaration; if only one
could live, as Jehovah was said to have done, on the savour
of burnt offerings. He lay back for a little in his bed thinking
about the smells of food, of the greasy horror of fried fish
and the deeply moving smell that came from it; of the
intoxicating breath of bakeries and the dullness of buns....
He planned dinners of enchanting aromatic foods that
should be carried under the nose, snuffed and thrown to the
dogs ... endless dinners, in which one could alternate
flavour with flavour from sunset to dawn without satiety,
while one breathed great draughts of the bouquet of old
brandy.... Oh for the wings of a dove, thought Adam,
wandering a little from the point as he fell asleep again
(every one is liable to this ninetyish feeling in the early
morning after a party).</p>

<hr/>

<p>Presently the telephone by Adam’s bed began ringing.</p>

<p>‘Hullo, yes.’</p>

<p>‘Lady to speak to you.... Hullo, is that you, Adam?’</p>

<p>‘Is that Nina?’</p>

<p>‘How are you, my darling?’</p>

<p>‘<i>Oh, Nina....</i>’</p>

<p>‘My poor sweet, I feel like that, too. Listen, angel. You
haven’t forgotten that you’re going to see my papa to-day,
have you ... or have you? I’ve just sent him a wire to say
that you’re going to lunch with him. D’you know where he
lives?’</p>

<p>‘But you’re coming too?’</p>

<p>‘Well, no. I don’t think I will, if you don’t mind....
I’ve got rather a pain.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, if you <i>knew</i> what a pain I’ve got....’</p>

<p>‘Yes, but that’s different, darling. Anyway, there’s no
object in our both going.’</p>

<p>‘But what am I to say?’</p>

<p>‘<i>Darling</i>, don’t be tiresome. You know perfectly well.
Just ask him for some money.’</p>

<p>‘Will he like that?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, darling, of course he will. Why will you go <i>on</i>?
I’ve got to get up now. Good-bye. Take care of yourself.
... Ring me up when you get back and tell me what papa
said. By the way, have you seen the paper this morning?—there’s
something so funny about last night. <i>Too</i> bad of
Van. Good-bye.’</p>

<p>While Adam was dressing, he realized that he did not
know where he was to go. He rang up again. ‘By the way,
Nina, where does your papa live?’</p>

<p>‘Didn’t I tell you? It’s a house called Doubting, and it’s all
falling down really. You go to Aylesbury by train and then
take a taxi. They’re the most expensive taxis in the world,
too.... Have you got any money?’</p>

<p>Adam looked on the dressing-table: ‘About seven shillings,’
he said.</p>

<p>‘My dear, that’s not enough. You’ll have to make poor
papa pay for the taxi.’</p>

<p>‘Will he like that?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, of course, he’s an angel.’</p>

<p>‘I wish you’d come too, Nina.’</p>

<p>‘Darling, I told you. I’ve got such a pain.’</p>

<p>Downstairs, as Lottie had said, everything was upside
down. That is to say that there were policemen and reporters
teeming in every corner of the hotel, each with a bottle
of champagne and a glass. Lottie, Doge, Judge Skimp, the
Inspector, four plain-clothes men and the body were in
Judge Skimp’s suite.</p>

<p>‘What is <i>not</i> clear to me, sir,’ said the Inspector, ‘is
what <i>prompted</i> the young lady to swing on the chandelier.
Not wishing to cause offence, sir, and begging your pardon,
was she ... ?’</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said Judge Skimp, ‘she was.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Exactly</i>,’ said the Inspector. ‘A clear case of misadventure,
eh, Mrs Crump? There’ll have to be an inquest, of
course, but I think probably I shall be able to arrange
things so that there is no mention of your name in the case,
sir ... well, that’s very kind of you, Mrs Crump, perhaps
just one more glass.’</p>

<p>‘Lottie,’ said Adam, ‘can you lend me some money?’</p>

<p>‘Money, dear? Of course. Doge, have you got any money?’</p>

<p>‘I was asleep at the time myself, mum, and was not even
made aware of the occurrence until I was called this morning.
Being slightly deaf, the sound of the disaster ...’</p>

<p>‘Judge What’s-your-name, got any money?’</p>

<p>‘I should take it as a great privilege if I could be of any
assistance ...’</p>

<p>‘That’s right, give some to young Thingummy here.
That all you want, deary? Don’t run away. We’re just
thinking of having a little drink.... No, not that wine,
dear, it’s what we keep for the police. I’ve just ordered a
better bottle if my young butterfly would bring it along.’</p>

<p>Adam had a glass of champagne, hoping it would make
him feel a little better. It made him feel much worse.</p>

<p>Then he went to Marylebone. It was Armistice Day, and
they were selling artificial poppies in the streets. As he
reached the station it struck eleven and for two minutes all
over the country every one was quiet and serious. Then he
went to Aylesbury, reading on the way Balcairn’s account
of Archie Schwert’s party. He was pleased to see himself
described as ‘the brilliant young novelist’, and wondered
whether Nina’s papa read gossip paragraphs, and supposed
not. The two women opposite him in the carriage obviously
did.</p>

<p>‘I no sooner opened the paper,’ said one, ‘than I was on
the ’phone <i>at once</i> to all the ladies of the committee, and
we’d sent off a wire to our Member before one o’clock. We
know how to make things hum at the Bois. I’ve got a copy of
what we sent. Look. <span class='it'>Members of the Committee of the
Ladies’ Conservative Association at Chesham Bois wish to
express their extreme displeasure at reports in this morning’s
paper of midnight party at No. 10. They call upon Captain
Crutwell</span>—that’s our Member; such a nice stamp of man—<span class='it'>strenuously
to withhold support to Prime Minister</span>. It cost
nearly four shillings, but, as I said at the time, it was not
a moment to spoil the ship for a ha’p’orth of tar. Don’t
you agree, Mrs Ithewaite?’</p>

<p>‘I do, indeed, Mrs Orraway-Smith. It is clearly a case in
which a mandate from the constituencies is required. I’ll
talk to our chairwoman at Wendover.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, do, Mrs Ithewaite. It is in a case like this that the
woman’s vote can count.’</p>

<p>‘If it’s a choice between my moral judgement and the
nationalization of banking, I prefer nationalization, if you
see what I mean.’</p>

<p>‘Exactly what I think. Such a terrible example to the
lower classes, <i>apart from everything</i>.’</p>

<p>‘That’s what I mean. There’s our Agnes, now. How can
I stop her having young men in the kitchen when she
knows that Sir James Brown has parties like that at all
hours of the night....’</p>

<p>They were both wearing hats like nothing on earth,
which bobbed and nodded as they spoke.</p>

<hr/>

<p>At Aylesbury Adam got into a Ford taxi and asked to be
taken to a house called Doubting.</p>

<p>‘Doubting ’All?’</p>

<p>‘Well, I suppose so. Is it falling down?’</p>

<p>‘Could do with a lick of paint,’ said the driver, a spotty
youth. ‘Name of Blount.’</p>

<p>‘That’s it.’</p>

<p>‘Long way from here Doubting ’All is. Cost you fifteen bob.’</p>

<p>‘All right.’</p>

<p>‘If you’re a commercial, I can tell you straight it ain’t
no use going to ’im. Young feller asked me the way there
this morning. Driving a Morris. Wanted to sell him a
vacuum cleaner. Old boy ’ad answered an advertisement
asking for a demonstration. When he got there the old boy
wouldn’t even look at it. Can you beat that?’</p>

<p>‘No, I’m not trying to sell him anything—at least not
exactly.’</p>

<p>‘Personal visit, perhaps.’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘Ah.’</p>

<p>Satisfied that his passenger was in earnest about the
journey, the taxi-driver put on some coats—for it was
raining—got out of his seat and cranked up the engine.
Presently they started.</p>

<p>They drove for a mile or two past bungalows and villas
and timbered public houses to a village in which every
house seemed to be a garage and filling station. Here they
left the main road and Adam’s discomfort became acute.</p>

<p>At last they came to twin octagonal lodges and some
heraldic gate-posts and large wrought-iron gates, behind
which could be seen a broad sweep of ill-kept drive.</p>

<p>‘Doubting ’All,’ said the driver.</p>

<p>He blew his horn once or twice, but no lodge-keeper’s
wife, aproned and apple-cheeked, appeared to bob them in.
He got out and shook the gates reproachfully.</p>

<p>‘Chained-and-locked,’ he said. ‘Try another way.’</p>

<p>They drove on for another mile; on the side of the Hall
the road was bordered by dripping trees and a dilapidated
stone wall; presently they reached some cottages and a white
gate. This they opened and turned into a rough track,
separated from the park by low iron railings. There were
sheep grazing on either side. One of them had strayed into
the drive. It fled before them in a frenzied trot, stopping and
looking round over its dirty tail and then plunging on again
until its agitation brought it to the side of the path, where
they overtook it and passed it.</p>

<p>The track led to some stables, then behind rows of hothouses,
among potting-sheds and heaps of drenched leaves,
past nondescript outbuildings that had once been laundry
and bakery and brewhouse and a huge kennel where once
some one had kept a bear, until suddenly it turned by a
clump of holly and elms and laurel bushes into an open
space that had once been laid with gravel. A lofty Palladian
façade stretched before them and in front of it an equestrian
statue pointed a baton imperiously down the main drive.</p>

<p>‘ ’Ere y’are,’ said the driver.</p>

<p>Adam paid him and went up the steps to the front door.
He rang the bell and waited. Nothing happened. Presently
he rang again. At this moment the door opened.</p>

<p>‘Don’t ring twice,’ said a very angry old man. ‘What do
you want?’</p>

<p>‘Is Mr Blount in?’</p>

<p>‘There’s no Mr Blount here. This is Colonel Blount’s house.’</p>

<p>‘I’m sorry.... I think the Colonel is expecting me to
luncheon.’</p>

<p>‘Nonsense. I’m Colonel Blount,’ and he shut the door.</p>

<p>The Ford had disappeared. It was still raining hard. Adam
rang again.</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said Colonel Blount, appearing instantly.</p>

<p>‘I wonder if you’d let me telephone to the station for a
taxi?’</p>

<p>‘Not on the telephone.... It’s raining. Why don’t you
come in? It’s absurd to walk to the station in this. Have you
come about the vacuum cleaner?’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>‘Funny, I’ve been expecting a man all the morning to
show me a vacuum cleaner. Come in, do. Won’t you stay to
luncheon?’</p>

<p>‘I should love to.’</p>

<p>‘Splendid. I get very little company nowadays. You must
forgive me for opening the door to you myself. My butler is
in bed to-day. He suffers terribly in his feet when it is wet.
Both my footmen were killed in the war.... Put your hat
and coat here. I hope you haven’t got wet.... I’m sorry
you didn’t bring the vacuum cleaner ... but never mind.
How are you?’ he said, suddenly holding out his hand.</p>

<p>They shook hands and Colonel Blount led the way down
a long corridor, lined with marble busts on yellow marble
pedestals, to a large room full of furniture, with a fire
burning in a fine rococo fireplace. There was a large leather-topped
walnut writing-table under a window opening on to
a terrace. Colonel Blount picked up a telegram and read it.</p>

<p>‘I’d quite forgotten,’ he said in some confusion. ‘I’m
afraid you’ll think me very discourteous, but it is, after all,
impossible for me to ask you to luncheon. I have a guest
coming on very intimate family business. You understand,
don’t you? ... To tell you the truth, it’s some young rascal
who wants to marry my daughter. I must see him alone to
discuss settlements.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I want to marry your daughter, too,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘What an extraordinary coincidence. Are you sure you do?’</p>

<p>‘Perhaps the telegram may be about me. What does it say?’</p>

<p>‘ “<span class='it'>Engaged to marry Adam Symes. Expect him luncheon.
Nina.</span>” Are you Adam Symes?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘My dear boy, why didn’t you say so before, instead of
going on about a vacuum cleaner? How are you?’</p>

<p>They shook hands again.</p>

<p>‘If you don’t mind,’ said Colonel Blount, ‘we will keep our
business until after luncheon. I’m afraid everything is
looking very bare at present. You must come down and see
the gardens in the summer. We had some lovely hydrangeas
last year. I don’t think I shall live here another winter. Too
big for an old man. I was looking at some of the houses
they’re putting up outside Aylesbury. Did you see them
coming along? Nice little red houses. Bathroom and everything.
Quite cheap, too, and near the cinematographs. I
hope you are fond of the cinematograph too? The Rector and
I go a great deal. I hope you’ll like the Rector. Common
little man rather. But he’s got a motor car, useful that. How
long are you staying?’</p>

<p>‘I promised Nina I’d be back to-night.’</p>

<p>‘That’s a pity. They change the film at the Electra
Palace. We might have gone.’</p>

<p>An elderly woman servant came in to announce luncheon.
‘What is at the Electra Palace, do you know, Mrs Florin?’</p>

<p>‘Greta Garbo in <i>Venetian Kisses</i>, I think, sir.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t really think I like Greta Garbo. I’ve tried to,’ said
Colonel Blount, ‘but I just don’t.’</p>

<p>They went in to luncheon in a huge dining-room dark
with family portraits.</p>

<p>‘If you don’t mind,’ said Colonel Blount, ‘I prefer not to
talk at meals.’</p>

<p>He propped a morocco-bound volume of <i>Punch</i> before his
plate against a vast silver urn, from which grew a small
castor-oil plant.</p>

<p>‘Give Mr Symes a book,’ he said.</p>

<p>Mrs Florin put another volume of <i>Punch</i> beside Adam.</p>

<p>‘If you come across anything really funny read it to me,’
said Colonel Blount.</p>

<p>Then they had luncheon.</p>

<p>They were nearly an hour over luncheon. Course followed
course in disconcerting abundance while Colonel Blount ate
and ate, turning the leaves of his book and chuckling frequently.
They ate hare soup and boiled turbot and stewed
sweetbreads and black Bredenham ham with Madeira sauce
and roast pheasant and a rum omelette and toasted cheese
and fruit. First they drank sherry, then claret, then port.
Then Colonel Blount shut his book with a broad sweep of his
arm rather as the headmaster of Adam’s private school used
to shut the Bible after evening prayers, folded his napkin
carefully and stuffed it into a massive silver ring, muttered
some words of grace and finally stood up, saying:</p>

<p>‘Well, I don’t know about you, but I’m going to have a
little nap,’ and trotted out of the room.</p>

<p>‘There’s a fire in the library, sir,’ said Mrs Florin. ‘I’ll
bring you your coffee there. The Colonel doesn’t have
coffee, he finds it interferes with his afternoon sleep. What
time would you like your afternoon tea, sir?’</p>

<p>‘I ought really to be getting back to London. How long
will it be before the Colonel comes down, do you think?’</p>

<p>‘Well, it all depends, sir. Not usually till about five or
half-past. Then he reads until dinner at seven and after
dinner gets the Rector to drive him in to the pictures. A
sedentary life, as you might say.’</p>

<p>She led Adam into the library and put a silver coffee-pot
at his elbow.</p>

<p>‘I’ll bring you tea at four,’ she said.</p>

<p>Adam sat in front of the fire in a deep armchair. Outside
the rain beat on the double windows. There were several
magazines in the library—mostly cheap weeklies devoted to
the cinema. There was a stuffed owl and a case of early
British remains, bone pins and bits of pottery and a skull,
which had been dug up in the park many years ago and
catalogued by Nina’s governess. There was a cabinet containing
the relics of Nina’s various collecting fevers—some
butterflies and a beetle or two, some fossils and some birds’
eggs and a few postage stamps. There were some bookcases
of superbly unreadable books, a gun, a butterfly net, an
alpenstock in the corner. There were catalogues of agricultural
machines and acetylene plants, lawn mowers, ‘sports
requisites’. There was a fire screen worked with a coat of
arms. The chimney-piece was hung with the embroidered
saddle-cloths of Colonel Blount’s regiment of Lancers. There
was an engraving of all the members of the Royal Yacht
Squadron, with a little plan in the corner, marked to show
who was who. There were many other things of equal interest
besides, but before Adam had noticed any more he was
fast asleep.</p>

<p>Mrs Florin woke him at four. The coffee had disappeared
and its place was taken by a silver tray with a lace cloth on it.
There was a silver tea-pot, and a silver kettle with a little
spirit-lamp underneath, and a silver cream jug and a covered
silver dish full of muffins. There was also hot buttered toast
and honey and gentleman’s relish and a chocolate cake, a
cherry cake, a seed cake and a fruit cake and some tomato
sandwiches and pepper and salt and currant bread and
butter.</p>

<p>‘Would you care for a lightly boiled egg, sir? The Colonel
generally has one if he’s awake.’</p>

<p>‘No, thank you,’ said Adam. He felt a thousand times
better for his rest. When Nina and he were married, he
thought, they would often come down there for the day after
a really serious party. For the first time he noticed an obese
liver and white spaniel, which was waking up, too, on the
hearthrug.</p>

<p>‘Please not to give her muffins,’ said Mrs Florin, ‘it’s the
one thing she’s not supposed to have, and the Colonel will
give them to her. He loves that dog,’ she added with a burst
of confidence. ‘Takes her to the pictures with him of an
evening. Not that she can appreciate them really like a
human can.’</p>

<p>Adam gave her—the spaniel, not Mrs Florin—a gentle
prod with his foot and a lump of sugar. She licked his shoe
with evident cordiality. Adam was not above feeling flattered
by friendliness in dogs.</p>

<p>He had finished his tea and was filling his pipe when
Colonel Blount came into the library.</p>

<p>‘Who the devil are you?’ said his host.</p>

<p>‘Adam Symes,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘Never heard of you. How did you get in? Who gave you
tea? What do you want?’</p>

<p>‘You asked me to luncheon,’ said Adam. ‘I came about
being married to Nina.’</p>

<p>‘My dear boy, of course. How absurd of me. I’ve such a
bad memory for names. It comes of seeing so few people.
How are you?’</p>

<p>They shook hands again.</p>

<p>‘So you’re the young man who’s engaged to Nina,’ said
the Colonel, eyeing him for the first time in the way prospective
sons-in-laws are supposed to be eyed. ‘Now what in
the world do you want to get married for? I shouldn’t, you
know, really I shouldn’t. Are you rich?’</p>

<p>‘No, not at present, I’m afraid, that’s rather what I
wanted to talk about.’</p>

<p>‘How much money have you got?’</p>

<p>‘Well, sir, actually at the moment I haven’t got any at all.’</p>

<p>‘When did you last have any?’</p>

<p>‘I had a thousand pounds last night, but I gave it all to a
drunk Major.’</p>

<p>‘Why did you do that?’</p>

<p>‘Well, I hoped he’d put it on Indian Runner for the
November Handicap.’</p>

<p>‘Never heard of the horse. Didn’t he?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t think he can have.’</p>

<p>‘When will you next have some money?’</p>

<p>‘When I’ve written some books.’</p>

<p>‘How many books?’</p>

<p>‘Twelve.’</p>

<p>‘How much will you have then?’</p>

<p>‘Probably fifty pounds advance on my thirteenth book.’</p>

<p>‘And how long will it take you to write twelve books?’</p>

<p>‘About a year.’</p>

<p>‘How long would it take most people?’</p>

<p>‘About twenty years. Of course, put like that I do see that
it sounds rather hopeless ... but, you see, Nina and I hoped
that you, that is, that perhaps for the next year until I get
my twelve books written, that you might help us ...’</p>

<p>‘How could I help you? I’ve never written a book in my
life.’</p>

<p>‘No, we thought you might give us some money.’</p>

<p>‘You thought that, did you?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, that’s what we thought ...’</p>

<p>Colonel Blount looked at him gravely for some time.
Then he said, ‘I think that an admirable idea. I don’t see any
reason at all why I shouldn’t. How much do you want?’</p>

<p>‘That’s really terribly good of you, sir ... Well, you
know, just enough to live on quietly for a bit. I hardly
know ...’</p>

<p>‘Well, would a thousand pounds be any help?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, it would indeed. We shall both be terribly grateful.’</p>

<p>‘Not at all, my dear boy. Not at all. What did you say
your name was?’</p>

<p>‘Adam Symes.’</p>

<p>Colonel Blount went to the table and wrote out a cheque.
‘There you are,’ he said. ‘Now don’t go giving that away to
another drunk major.’</p>

<p>‘Really, sir! I don’t know how to thank you. Nina ...’</p>

<p>‘Not another word. Now I expect that you will want to be
off to London again. We’ll send Mrs Florin across to the
Rectory and make the Rector drive you to the station. Useful
having a neighbour with a motor car. They charge fivepence
on the buses from here to Aylesbury. <i>Robbers.</i>’</p>

<hr/>

<p>It does not befall many young men to be given a thousand
pounds by a complete stranger twice on successive evenings.
Adam laughed aloud in the Rector’s car as they drove to the
station. The Rector, who had been in the middle of writing a
sermon and resented with daily increasing feeling Colonel
Blount’s neighbourly appropriation of his car and himself,
kept his eyes fixed on the streaming windscreen, pretending
not to notice. Adam laughed all the way to Aylesbury, sitting
and holding his knees and shaking all over. The Rector
could hardly bring himself to say good-night when they
parted in the station yard.</p>

<p>There was half an hour to wait for a train and the leaking
roof and wet railway lines had a sobering effect on Adam. He
bought an evening paper. On the front page was an exquisitely
funny photograph of Miss Runcible in Hawaiian costume
tumbling down the steps of No. 10 Downing Street.
The Government had fallen that afternoon, he read, being
defeated on a motion rising from the answer to a question
about the treatment of Miss Runcible by Customs House
officers. It was generally held in Parliamentary circles that
the deciding factor in this reverse had been the revolt of the
Liberals and the Nonconformist members at the revelations
of the life that was led at No. 10, Downing Street, during Sir
James Brown’s tenancy. The <i>Evening Mail</i> had a leading
article, which drew a fine analogy between Public and
Domestic Purity, between sobriety in the family and in the
State.</p>

<p>There was another small paragraph which interested
Adam.</p>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p style='text-align:center;'>‘<i>Tragedy in West-End Hotel.</i></p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>The death occurred early this morning at a private hotel in
Dover Street of Miss Florence Ducane, described as being of
independent means, following an accident in which Miss
Ducane fell from a chandelier which she was attempting to
mend. The inquest will be held to-morrow, which will be
followed by the cremation at Golders Green. Miss Ducane,
who was formerly connected with the stage, was well known in
business circles.</span>’</p>

</div>

<p>Which only showed, thought Adam, how much better
Lottie Crump knew the business of avoiding undesirable
publicity than Sir James Brown.</p>

<hr/>

<p>When Adam reached London the rain had stopped, but
there was a thin fog drifting in belts before a damp wind.
The station was crowded with office workers hurrying with
attaché cases and evening papers to catch their evening
trains home, coughing and sneezing as they went. They still
wore their poppies. Adam went to a telephone-box and rang
up Nina. She had left a message for him that she was having
cocktails at Margot Metroland’s house. He drove to Shepheard’s.</p>

<p>‘Lottie,’ he said, ‘I’ve got a thousand pounds.’</p>

<p>‘Have you, now,’ said Lottie indifferently. She lived on
the assumption that every one she knew always had several
thousand pounds. It was to her as though he had said,
‘Lottie, I have a tall hat.’</p>

<p>‘Can you lend me some money till to-morrow till I cash
the cheque?’</p>

<p>‘What a boy you are for borrowing. Just like your poor
father. Here, you in the corner, lend Mr What-d’you-call-him
some money.’</p>

<p>A tall Guardsman shook his retreating forehead and
twirled his moustaches.</p>

<p>‘No good coming to me, Lottie,’ he said in a voice trained
to command.</p>

<p>‘Mean hound,’ said Lottie. ‘Where’s that American?’</p>

<p>Judge Skimp, who, since his experiences that morning, had
become profoundly Anglophile, produced two tenpound
notes. ‘I shall be only too proud and honoured ...’ he said.</p>

<p>‘Good old Judge Thingummy,’ said Lottie. ‘That’s the
way.’</p>

<p>Adam hurried out into the hall as another bottle of champagne
popped festively in the parlour.</p>

<p>‘Doge, ring up the Daimler Hire Company and order a
car in my name. Tell it to go round to Lady Metroland’s—Pastmaster
House, Hill Street,’ he said. Then he put on his
hat and walked down Hay Hill, swinging an umbrella and
laughing again, only more quietly, to himself.</p>

<p>At Lady Metroland’s he kept on his coat and waited in the
hall.</p>

<p>‘Will you please tell Miss Blount I’ve called for her? No, I
won’t go up.’</p>

<p>He looked at the hats on the table. Clearly there was quite
a party. Two or three silk hats of people who had dressed
early, the rest soft and black like his own. Then he began to
dance again, jigging to himself in simple high spirits.</p>

<p>In a minute Nina came down the broad Adam staircase.</p>

<p>‘Darling, why didn’t you come up? It’s so rude. Margot is
longing to see you.’</p>

<p>‘I’m so sorry, Nina. I couldn’t face a party. I’m so excited.’</p>

<p>‘Why, what’s happened?’</p>

<p>‘Everything. I’ll tell you in the car.’</p>

<p>‘Car?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, it’ll be here in a minute. We’re going down to the
country for dinner. I can’t tell you how clever I’ve been.’</p>

<p>‘But what have you done, darling? Do stop dancing about.’</p>

<p>‘Can’t stop. You’ve no idea how clever I am.’</p>

<p>‘Adam. Are you tight again?’</p>

<p>‘Look out of the window and see if you can see a Daimler
waiting.’</p>

<p>‘Adam, what <i>have</i> you been doing? I will be told.’</p>

<p>‘Look,’ said Adam, producing the cheque. ‘Whatcher
think of that?’ he added in Cockney.</p>

<p>‘<i>My dear</i>, a thousand pounds. Did papa give you that?’</p>

<p>‘I earned it,’ said Adam. ‘Oh, I earned it. You should have
seen the luncheon I ate and the jokes I read. I’m going to be
married to-morrow. Oh, Nina, would Margot hate it if I
sang in her hall?’</p>

<p>‘She’d simply loathe it, darling, and so should I. I’m
going to take care of that cheque. You remember what
happened the last time you were given a thousand pounds.’</p>

<p>‘That’s what your papa said.’</p>

<p>‘Did you tell him that?’</p>

<p>‘I told him everything—and he gave me a thousand
pounds.’</p>

<p>‘... Poor Adam ...’ said Nina suddenly.</p>

<p>‘Why did you say that?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know.... I believe this is your car....’</p>

<p>‘Nina, why did you say “Poor Adam”?’</p>

<p>‘... Did I? ... Oh, I don’t know.... Oh, I do adore you
so.’</p>

<p>‘I’m going to be married to-morrow. Are you?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, I expect so, dear.’</p>

<p>The chauffeur got rather bored while they tried to decide
where they would dine. At every place he suggested they
gave a little wail of dismay. ‘But that’s sure to be full of
awful people we know,’ they said. Maidenhead, Thame,
Brighton, he suggested. Finally they decided to go to
Arundel.</p>

<p>‘It’ll be nearly nine before we get there,’ the chauffeur
said. ‘Now there’s a very nice hotel at Bray....’</p>

<p>But they went to Arundel.</p>

<p>‘We’ll be married to-morrow,’ said Adam in the car.
‘And we won’t ask anybody to the wedding at all. And we’ll
go abroad at once, and just not come back till I’ve written all
those books. Nina, isn’t it divine? Where shall we go?’</p>

<p>‘Anywhere you like, only rather warm, don’t you think?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t believe you really think we are going to be
married, Nina, do you, or do you?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know ... it’s only that I don’t believe that really
divine things like that ever do happen.... I don’t know
why.... Oh, I do like you so much to-night. If only you
<i>knew</i> how sweet you looked skipping about in Margot’s hall
all by yourself. I’d been watching you for hours before I
came down.’</p>

<p>‘I shall send the car back,’ said Adam, as they drove
through Pulborough. ‘We can go home by train.’</p>

<p>‘If there is a train.’</p>

<p>‘There’s bound to be,’ said Adam. But this raised a
question in both their minds that had been unobtrusively
agitating them throughout the journey. Neither said any
more on the subject, but there was a distinct air of constraint
in the Daimler from Pulborough onwards.</p>

<p>This question was settled when they reached the hotel at
Arundel.</p>

<p>‘We want dinner,’ said Adam, ‘and a room for the
night.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Darling</i>, am I going to be seduced?’</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid you are. Do you mind terribly?’</p>

<p>‘Not as much as all that,’ said Nina, and added in Cockney,
‘Charmed, I’m sure.’</p>

<p>Every one had finished dinner. They dined alone in a
corner of the coffee-room, while the other waiters laid the
tables for breakfast, looking at them resentfully. It was the
dreariest kind of English dinner. After dinner the lounge
was awful; there were some golfers in dinner-jackets playing
bridge, and two old ladies. Adam and Nina went across the
stable-yard to the tap-room and sat until closing time in a
warm haze of tobacco smoke listening to the intermittent
gossip of the towns-people. They sat hand-in-hand, unembarrassed;
after the first minute no one noticed them. Just
before closing time Adam stood a round of drinks. They said:</p>

<p>‘Good health, sir. Best respects, madam,’ and the barman
said, ‘Come along, please. Finish your drinks, please,’
in a peculiar sing-song tone.</p>

<p>There was a clock chiming as they crossed the yard and a
slightly drunk farmer trying to start up his car. Then they
went up an oak staircase lined with blunderbusses and
coaching prints to their room.</p>

<p>They had no luggage (the chambermaid remarked on this
next day to the young man who worked at the wireless shop,
saying that that was the worst of being in a main road hotel.
You got all sorts).</p>

<p>Adam undressed very quickly and got into bed; Nina
more slowly arranging her clothes on the chair and fingering
the ornaments on the chimney-piece with less than her
usual self-possession. At last she put out the light.</p>

<p>‘Do you know,’ she said, trembling slightly as she got into
bed, ‘this is the first time this has happened to me?’</p>

<p>‘It’s great fun,’ said Adam, ‘I promise you.’</p>

<p>‘I’m sure it is,’ said Nina seriously, ‘I wasn’t saying anything
against it. I was only saying that it hadn’t happened
before.... Oh, Adam....’</p>

<hr/>

<p>‘And you said that really divine things didn’t happen,’
said Adam in the middle of the night.</p>

<p>‘I don’t think that this is at all divine,’ said Nina. ‘It’s
given me a pain. And—my dear, that reminds me. I’ve
something terribly important to say to you in the morning.’</p>

<p>‘What?’</p>

<p>‘Not now, darling. Let’s go to sleep for a little, don’t you
think?’</p>

<p>Before Nina was properly awake Adam dressed and went
out into the rain to get a shave. He came back bringing two
toothbrushes and a bright red celluloid comb. Nina sat up in
bed and combed her hair. She put Adam’s coat over her
back.</p>

<p>‘My dear, you look exactly like <i>La Vie Parisienne</i>,’ said
Adam, turning round from brushing his teeth.</p>

<p>Then she threw off the coat and jumped out of bed, and
he told her that she looked like a fashion drawing without
the clothes. Nina was rather pleased about that, but she said
that it was cold and that she still had a pain, only not so bad
as it was. Then she dressed and they went downstairs.</p>

<p>Every one else had had breakfast and the waiters were
laying the tables for luncheon.</p>

<p>‘By the way,’ said Adam. ‘You said there was something
you wanted to say.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, yes, so there is. My dear, something quite awful.’</p>

<p>‘Do tell me.’</p>

<p>‘Well, it’s about that cheque papa gave you. I’m afraid it
won’t help us as much as you thought.’</p>

<p>‘But, darling, it’s a thousand pounds, isn’t it?’</p>

<p>‘Just look at it, my sweet.’ She took it out of her bag and
handed it across the table.</p>

<p>‘I don’t see anything wrong with it,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘Not the signature?’</p>

<p>‘Why, good lord, the old idiot’s signed it “Charlie Chaplin”.’</p>

<p>‘That’s what I mean, darling.’</p>

<p>‘But can’t we get him to alter it? He must be dotty. I’ll
go down and see him again to-day.’</p>

<p>‘I shouldn’t do that, dear ... don’t you see.... Of
course, he’s very old, and ... I dare say you may have made
things sound a little odd ... don’t you think, dear, <i>he</i> must
have thought <i>you</i> a little dotty? ... I mean ... perhaps ...
that cheque was a kind of joke.’</p>

<p>‘Well I’m damned ... this really is a bore. When everything
seemed to be going so well, too. When did you notice
the signature, Nina?’</p>

<p>‘As soon as you showed it to me, at Margot’s. Only you
looked so happy I didn’t like to say anything.... You did
look happy, you know, Adam, and so sweet. I think I really
fell in love with you for the first time when I saw you
dancing all alone in the hall.’</p>

<p>‘Well I’m damned,’ said Adam again. ‘The old devil.’</p>

<p>‘Anyway, you’ve had some fun out of it, haven’t you
... or haven’t you?’</p>

<p>‘Haven’t <i>you</i>?’</p>

<p>‘My dear, I never hated anything so much in my life ...
still, as long as you enjoyed it that’s something.’</p>

<p>‘I say, Nina,’ said Adam after some time, ‘we shan’t be
able to get married after all.’</p>

<p>‘No, I’m afraid not.’</p>

<p>‘It <i>is</i> a bore, isn’t it?’</p>

<p>Later he said, ‘I expect that parson thought I was dotty
too.’</p>

<p>And later, ‘As a matter of fact, it’s rather a good joke,
don’t you think?’</p>

<p>‘I think it’s divine.’</p>

<p>In the train Nina said: ‘It’s awful to think that I shall
probably never, as long as I live, see you dancing like that
again all by yourself.’</p>

<h2>Chapter Six</h2>

<p>That evening Lady Metroland gave a party for Mrs Melrose
Ape. Adam found the telegram of invitation waiting for
him on his return to Shepheard’s. (Lottie had already used
the prepaid reply to do some betting with. Some one had
given her a tip for the November Handicap and she wanted
to ‘make her little flutter’ before she forgot the name.)
He also found an invitation to luncheon from Simon
Balcairn.</p>

<p>The food at Shepheard’s tends to be mostly game-pie—quite
black inside and full of beaks and shot and inexplicable
vertebræ—so Adam was quite pleased to lunch with
Simon Balcairn, though he knew there must be some
slightly sinister motive behind this sudden hospitality.</p>

<p>They lunched <i>Chez Espinosa</i>, the second most expensive
restaurant in London; it was full of oilcloth and Lalique
glass, and the sort of people who liked that sort of thing went
there continually and said how awful it was.</p>

<p>‘I hope you don’t mind coming to this awful restaurant,’
said Balcairn. ‘The truth is that I get meals free if I mention
them occasionally in my page. Not drinks, unfortunately.
Who’s here, Alphonse?’ he asked the <i>maître d’hôtel</i>.</p>

<p>Alphonse handed him the typewritten slip that was
always kept for gossip writers.</p>

<p>‘H’m, yes. Quite a good list this morning, Alphonse. I’ll
do what I can about it.’</p>

<p>‘Thank you, sir. A table for two? A cocktail?’</p>

<p>‘No, I don’t think I want a cocktail. I really haven’t time.
Will you have one, Adam? They aren’t very good here.’</p>

<p>‘No, thanks,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘Sure?’ said Balcairn, already making for their table.</p>

<p>When they were being helped to caviare he looked at the
wine list.</p>

<p>‘The lager is rather good,’ he said. ‘What would you like
to drink?’</p>

<p>‘Whatever you’re having.... I think some lager would
be lovely.’</p>

<p>‘Two small bottles of lager, please.... Are you sure you
really like that better than anything?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, really, thank you.’</p>

<p>Simon Balcairn looked about him gloomily, occasionally
adding a new name to his list. (It is so depressing to be in a
profession in which literally all conversation is ‘shop’.)</p>

<p>Presently he said, with a deadly air of carelessness:</p>

<p>‘Margot Metroland’s got a party to-night, hasn’t she? Are
you going?’</p>

<p>‘I think probably. I usually like Margot’s parties, don’t
you?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.... Adam, I’ll tell you a very odd thing. She hasn’t
sent me an invitation to this one.’</p>

<p>‘I expect she will. I only got mine this morning.’</p>

<p>‘... Yes ... who’s that woman just come in in the fur
coat? I know her so well by sight.’</p>

<p>‘Isn’t it Lady Everyman?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, of course.’ Another name was added to the list.
Balcairn paused in utmost gloom and ate some salad. ‘The
thing is ... she told Agatha Runcible she wasn’t <i>going</i> to
ask me.’</p>

<p>‘Why not?’</p>

<p>‘Apparently she’s in a rage about something I said about
something she said about Miles.’</p>

<p>‘People do take things so seriously,’ said Adam encouragingly.</p>

<p>‘It means ruin for me,’ said Lord Balcairn. ‘Isn’t that
Pamela Popham?’</p>

<p>‘I haven’t the least idea.’</p>

<p>‘I’m sure it is ... I must look up the spelling in the stud
book when I get back. I got into awful trouble about spelling
the other day.... Ruin.... She’s asked Vanburgh.’</p>

<p>‘Well, he’s some sort of cousin, isn’t he?’</p>

<p>‘It’s so damned unfair. All my cousins are in lunatic
asylums or else they live in the country and do indelicate
things with wild animals ... Except my mamma, and that’s
worse ... they were furious at the office about Van getting
that Downing Street “scoop”. If I miss this party I may as
well leave Fleet Street for good ... I may as well put my
head into a gas-oven and have done with it ... I’m sure if
Margot knew how much it meant to me she wouldn’t mind
my coming.’</p>

<p>Great tears stood in his eyes threatening to overflow.</p>

<p>‘All this last week,’ he said, ‘I’ve been reduced to making
up my page from the Court Circular and Debrett ... No
one ever asks me anywhere now ...’</p>

<p>‘I’ll tell you what,’ said Adam, ‘I know Margot pretty
well. If you like I’ll ring her up and ask if I may bring you.’</p>

<p>‘Will you? Will you, Adam? If only you really would.
Let’s go and do it at once. We’ve no time for coffee or
liqueurs. Quick, we can telephone from my office ... yes,
that black hat and my umbrella, no, I’ve lost the number
... there, no, there, oh do hurry.... Yes, a taxi ...’</p>

<p>They were out in the street and into a taxi before Adam
had time to say any more. Soon they were imbedded in a
traffic block in the Strand, and after a time they reached
Balcairn’s office in Fleet Street.</p>

<p>They went up to a tiny room with ‘Social’ written on the
glass of the door. Its interior seemed not to justify its name.
There was one chair, a typewriter, a telephone, some books
of reference and a considerable litter of photographs. Balcairn’s
immediate superior sat in the one chair.</p>

<p>‘Hullo,’ she said. ‘So you’re back. Where you been?’</p>

<p>‘Espinosa. Here’s the list.’</p>

<p>The social editress read it through. ‘Can’t have Kitty
Blackwater,’ she said. ‘Had her yesterday. Others’ll do.
Write ’em down to a couple of paragraphs. Suppose you
didn’t notice what they were wearing?’</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said Balcairn eagerly. ‘All of them.’</p>

<p>‘Well, you won’t have room to use it. We got to keep
everything down for Lady M.’s party. I’ve cut out the D. of
Devonshire altogether. By the way, the photograph you
used yesterday wasn’t the present Countess of Everyman.
It’s an old one of the Dowager. We had ’em both on the
’phone about it, going on something awful. That’s <i>you</i>,
again. Got your invite for to-night?’</p>

<p>‘Not yet.’</p>

<p>‘You better get it quick. I got to have a first-hand story
before we go to press, see? By the way, know anything about
this? Lady R.’s maid sent it in to-day.’ She picked up a slip of
paper: ‘ “Rumoured engagement broken off between Adam
Fenwick-Symes, only son of the late Professor Oliver Fenwick-Symes,
and Nina Blount, of Doubting Hall, Aylesbury.”
Never heard of either. Ain’t even been announced,
so far as I’m aware of.’</p>

<p>‘You’d better ask him. This is Adam Symes.’</p>

<p>‘Hullo, no offence meant, I’m sure.... What about it?’</p>

<p>‘It is neither announced nor broken off.’</p>

<p>‘N.B.G. in fact, eh? Then <i>that</i> goes <i>there</i>.’ She put the slip
into the wastepaper basket. ‘That girl’s sent us a lot of bad
stuff lately. Well, I’m off for a bit of lunch. I’ll be over at the
Garden Club if anything urgent turns up. So long.’</p>

<p>The editress went out, banging the door labelled ‘Social’,
and whistled as she went down the passage.</p>

<p>‘You see how they treat me,’ said Lord Balcairn. ‘They were
all over me when I first arrived. I do so wish I were dead.’</p>

<p>‘Don’t cry,’ said Adam, ‘it’s too shy-making.’</p>

<p>‘I can’t help it ... oh, do come in.’</p>

<p>The door marked ‘Social’ opened and a small boy came in.</p>

<p>‘Lord Circumference’s butler downstairs with some engagements
and a divorce.’</p>

<p>‘Tell him to leave them.’</p>

<p>‘Very good, my lord.’</p>

<p>‘That’s the only person in this office who’s ever polite to
me,’ said Balcairn as the messenger disappeared. ‘I wish I
had something to leave him in my will.... Do ring up
Margot. Then I shall at any rate know the worst.... Come in.’</p>

<p>‘Gentleman of the name of General Strapper downstairs.
Wants to see you very particular.’</p>

<p>‘What about?’</p>

<p>‘Couldn’t say, my lord, but he’s got a whip. Seems very
put out about something.’</p>

<p>‘Tell him the social editor is having luncheon.... Do
ring up Margot.’</p>

<p>Adam said, ‘Margot, may I bring some one with me to-night?’</p>

<p>‘Well, Adam, I really don’t think you can. I can’t imagine
how everyone’s going to get in as it is. I’m terribly sorry,
who is it?’</p>

<p>‘Simon Balcairn. He’s particularly anxious to come.’</p>

<p>‘I dare say he is. I’m rather against that young man. He’s
written things about me in the papers.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Please</i>, Margot.’</p>

<p>‘Certainly not. I won’t have him inside my house. I’ve
only asked Van on the strictest understanding that he
doesn’t write anything about it. I don’t wish to have anything
more to do with Simon Balcairn.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, how <i>rich</i> you sound.’</p>

<p>‘I feel my full income when that young man is mentioned.
Good-bye. See you to-night.’</p>

<p>‘You needn’t tell me,’ said Balcairn. ‘I know what she’s
said ... it’s no good, is it?’</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid not.’</p>

<p>‘Done for ...’ said Balcairn. ‘... End of the tether....’
He turned over some slips of paper listlessly. ‘Would it
interest you to hear that Agatha and Archie are engaged?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t believe it.’</p>

<p>‘Neither do I. One of our people has just sent it in. Half of
what they send us is lies, and the other half libel ... they
sent us a long story about Miles and Pamela Popham having
spent last night at Arundel.... But we couldn’t use it even
if it were true, which it obviously isn’t, knowing Miles.
Thank you for doing what you could ... good-bye.’</p>

<p>Downstairs in the outer office there was an altercation in
progress. A large man of military appearance was shaking
and stamping in front of a middle-aged woman. Adam
recognized the social editress.</p>

<p>‘Answer me, yes or no,’ the big man was saying. ‘Are you
or are you not responsible for this damnable lie about my
daughter?’</p>

<p>(He had read in Simon Balcairn’s column that his
daughter had been seen at a night club. To any one better
acquainted with Miss Strapper’s habits of life the paragraph
was particularly reticent.)</p>

<p>‘Yes, or no,’ cried the General, ‘or I’ll shake the life out
of you.’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>‘Then who is? Let me get hold of the cad who wrote it.
Where is he?’ roared the General.</p>

<p>‘Upstairs,’ the social editress managed to say.</p>

<p>‘More trouble for Simon,’ thought Adam.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Adam went to pick Nina up at her flat. They had arranged
to go to a cinema together. She said, ‘You’re much later
than you said. It’s so boring to be late for a talkie.’</p>

<p>He said, ‘Talkies are boring, anyhow.’</p>

<p>They treated each other quite differently after their
night’s experiences. Adam was inclined to be egotistical and
despondent; Nina was rather grown-up and disillusioned and
distinctly cross. Adam began to say that as far as he could see
he would have to live on at Shepheard’s now for the rest of
his life, or at any rate for the rest of Lottie’s life, as it
wouldn’t be fair to leave without paying the bill.</p>

<p>Then Nina said, ‘Do be amusing, Adam. I can’t bear you
when you’re not amusing.’</p>

<p>Then Adam began to tell her about Simon Balcairn and
Margot’s party. He described how he had seen Simon being
horse-whipped in the middle of the office.</p>

<p>Nina said, ‘Yes, that’s amusing. Go on like that.’</p>

<p>The story of Simon’s whipping lasted them all the way to
the cinema. They were very late for the film Nina wanted to
see, and that set them back again. They didn’t speak for a
long time. Then Nina said <i>à propos</i> of the film, ‘All this fuss
about sleeping together. For physical pleasure I’d sooner go
to my dentist any day.’</p>

<p>Adam said, ‘You’ll enjoy it more next time.’</p>

<p>Nina said, ‘<i>Next time</i>,’ and told him that he took too much
for granted.</p>

<p>Adam said that was a phrase which only prostitutes used.</p>

<p>Then they started a real quarrel which lasted all through
the film and all the way to Nina’s flat and all the time she
was cutting up a lemon and making a cocktail, until Adam
said that if she didn’t stop going on he would ravish her
there and then on her own hearthrug.</p>

<p>Then Nina went on.</p>

<p>But by the time that Adam went to dress she had climbed
down enough to admit that perhaps love was a thing one
could grow to be fond of after a time, like smoking a pipe.
Still she maintained that it made one feel very ill at first,
and she doubted if it was worth it.</p>

<p>Then they began to argue at the top of the lift about
whether acquired tastes were ever worth acquiring. Adam
said it was imitation, and that it was natural to man to be
imitative, so that acquired tastes were natural.</p>

<p>But the presence of the lift boy stopped that argument
coming to a solution as the other had done.</p>

<hr/>

<p>‘My, ain’t this classy,’ said Divine Discontent.</p>

<p>‘It’s all right,’ said Chastity in a worldly voice. ‘Nothing to
make a song and dance about.’</p>

<p>‘Who’s making a song and dance? I just said it was classy—and
it <i>is</i> classy, ain’t it?’</p>

<p>‘I suppose everything’s classy to <i>some</i> people.’</p>

<p>‘Now you two,’ said Temperance, who had been put in
charge of the angels for the evening, ‘don’t you start anything
in here, not with your wings on. Mrs Ape won’t stand
for scrapping in wings, and you know it.’</p>

<p>‘Who’s starting anything?’</p>

<p>‘Well, you are then.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, it’s no use talking to Chastity. She’s too high and
mighty to be an angel now. Went out for a drive with Mrs
Panrast in a Rolls Royce,’ said Fortitude. ‘I saw her. I was so
sorry it rained all the time, or it might have been quite
enjoyable, mightn’t it, Chastity?’</p>

<p>‘Well, you ought to be glad. Leaves the <i>men</i> for you,
Fortitude. Only they don’t seem to want to take advantage,
do they?’</p>

<p>Then they talked about men for some time. Divine Discontent
thought the second footman had nice eyes.</p>

<p>‘And he knows it,’ said Temperance.</p>

<p>They were all having supper together in what was still
called the schoolroom in Lady Metroland’s house. From the
window they could see the guests arriving for the party. In
spite of the rain quite a large crowd had collected on either
side of the awning to criticize the cloaks with appreciative
‘oohs’ and ‘ahs’ or contemptuous sniffs. Cars and taxis drove
up in close succession. Lady Circumference splashed up the
street in goloshes, wearing a high fender of diamonds under
a tartan umbrella. The Bright Young People came popping
all together, out of some one’s electric brougham like a litter
of pigs, and ran squealing up the steps. Some ‘gate-crashers’
who had made the mistake of coming in Victorian fancy
dress were detected and repulsed. They hurried home to
change for a second assault. No one wanted to miss Mrs
Ape’s <i>début</i>.</p>

<p>But the angels were rather uneasy. They had been
dressed ever since seven o’clock in their white shifts, gold
sashes and wings. It was now past ten, and the strain was
beginning to tell, for it was impossible to sit back comfortably
in wings.</p>

<p>‘Oh, I wish they’d hurry up so we could get it over,’ said
Creative Endeavour. ‘Mrs Ape said we could have some
champagne afterwards if we sang nice.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t mind betting <i>she’s</i> doing herself pretty well,
down there.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Chastity!</i>’</p>

<p>‘Oh, <i>all</i> right.’</p>

<p>Then the footman with the nice eyes came to clear the
table. He gave them a friendly wink as he shut the door.
‘Pretty creatures,’ he thought. ‘Blooming shame that they’re
so religious ... wasting the best years of their lives.’</p>

<p>(There had been a grave debate in the servants’ hall about
the exact status of angels. Even Mr Blenkinsop, the butler,
had been uncertain. ‘Angels are certainly not guests,’ he had
said, ‘and I don’t think they are deputations. Nor they ain’t
governesses either, nor clergy not strictly speaking; they’re
not entertainers, because entertainers <i>dine</i> nowadays, the
more’s the pity.’</p>

<p>‘I believe they’re decorators,’ said Mrs Blouse, ‘or else
charitable workers.’</p>

<p>‘Charitable workers are governesses, Mrs Blouse. There is
nothing to be gained by multiplying social distinctions indefinitely.
Decorators are either guests or workmen.’</p>

<p>After further discussion the conclusion was reached that
angels were nurses, and that became the official ruling of
the household. But the second footman was of the opinion
that they were ‘young persons’, pure and simple, ‘and very
nice too’, for nurses cannot, except in very rare cases, be
winked at, and clearly angels could.)</p>

<p>‘What we want to know, Chastity,’ said Creative Endeavour,
‘is how you come to take up with Mrs Panrast at
all.’</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said the Angels, ‘yes. It’s not like <i>you</i>, Chastity, to
go riding in a motor car with a woman.’ They fluttered their
feathers in a menacing way. ‘Let’s third-degree her,’ said
Humility with rather nasty relish.</p>

<p>(There was a system of impromptu jurisdiction among the
Angels which began with innuendo, went on to crossexamination,
pinches and slaps and ended, as a rule, in tears
and kisses.)</p>

<p>Faced by this circle of spiteful and haloed faces, Chastity
began to lose her air of superiority.</p>

<p>‘Why shouldn’t I ride with a friend,’ she asked plaintively,
‘without all you girls pitching on me like this?’</p>

<p>‘<i>Friend</i>,’ said Creative Endeavour. ‘You never saw her
before to-day,’ and she gave her a nasty pinch just above the
elbow.</p>

<p>‘<i>Ooooh!</i>’ said Chastity. ‘<i>OOh, please</i> ... beast.’</p>

<p>Then they all pinched her all over, but precisely and
judiciously, so as not to disturb her wings or halo, for this
was no orgy (sometimes in their bedrooms, they gave way,
but not here, in Lady Metroland’s schoolroom, before an
important first night).</p>

<p>‘Ooh,’ said Chastity, ‘<i>OOh, ow, ooh, ow. Please</i>, beasts,
swine, cads ... <i>please</i> ... oh ... well, if you must know, I
thought she <i>was</i> a man.’</p>

<p>‘Thought she was a <i>man</i>, Chastity? That doesn’t sound
right to me.’</p>

<p>‘Well, she looks like a man and—and she <i>goes on</i> like a
man. I saw her sitting at a table in a tea-shop. She hadn’t got
a hat on, and I couldn’t see her skirt ... ooh ... how can I
tell you if you keep pinching ... and she smiled and so,
well, I went and had some tea with her, and she said would
I go out with her in her motor car, and I said yes and, ooh, I
wish I hadn’t now.’</p>

<p>‘What did she say in the motor car, Chastity?’</p>

<p>‘I forget—nothing much.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, what.’ ‘Do tell us.’ ‘We’ll never pinch you again if
you tell us.’ ‘I’m sorry if I hurt you, Chastity, do tell <i>me</i>.’
‘You’d <i>better</i> tell us.’</p>

<p>‘No, I can’t, <i>really</i>—I don’t remember, I tell you.’</p>

<p>‘Give her another little nip, girls.’</p>

<p>‘Ooh, ooh, ooh, <i>stop</i>. I’ll tell you.’</p>

<p>Their heads were close together and they were so deeply
engrossed in the story that they did not hear Mrs Ape’s
entry.</p>

<p>‘Smut again,’ said a terrible voice. ‘Girls, I’m sick
ashamed of you.’</p>

<p>Mrs Ape looked magnificent in a gown of heavy gold
brocade embroidered with texts.</p>

<p>‘I’m sick ashamed of you,’ repeated Mrs Ape, ‘and you’ve
made Chastity cry again, just before the big act. If you must
bully some one, <i>why</i> choose Chastity? You all know by this
time that crying always gives her a red nose. How do <i>I</i> look,
I should like to know, standing up in front of a lot of angels
with red noses. You don’t ever think of nothing but your
own pleasures, do you? <i>Sluts.</i>’ This last word was spoken
with a depth of expression that set the angels trembling.
‘There’ll be no champagne for any one to-night, see. And if
you don’t sing perfectly, I’ll give the whole lot of you a good
hiding, see. Now, come on, now, and for the love of the
Lamb, Chastity, <i>do something to your nose</i>. They’ll think it’s
a temperance meeting to see you like that.’</p>

<p>It was a brilliant scene into which the disconsolate angels
trooped two minutes later. Margot Metroland shook hands
with each of them as they came to the foot of the staircase,
appraising them, one by one, with an expert eye.</p>

<p>‘You don’t look happy, my dear,’ she found time to say to
Chastity, as she led them across the ballroom to their platform,
banked in orchids at the far end. ‘If you feel you want
a change, let me know later, and I can get you a job in South
America. <i>I mean it.</i>’</p>

<p>‘Oh, thank you,’ said Chastity, ‘but I could never leave
Mrs Ape.’</p>

<p>‘Well, think it over, child. You’re far too pretty a girl to
waste your time singing hymns. Tell that other girl, the red-headed
one, that I can probably find a place for her, too.’</p>

<p>‘What, Humility? Don’t you have nothing to do with her.
She’s a fiend.’</p>

<p>‘Well, some men like rough stuff, but I don’t want any
one who makes trouble with the other girls.’</p>

<p>‘She makes trouble all right. Look at that bruise.’</p>

<p>‘My dear!’</p>

<p>Margot Metroland and Mrs Ape led the angels up the
steps between the orchids and stood them at the back of the
platform facing the room. Chastity stood next to Creative
Endeavour.</p>

<p>‘Please, Chastity, I’m sorry if we hurt you,’ said Creative
Endeavour. ‘I didn’t pinch hard, did I?’</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said Chastity. ‘Like hell you did.’</p>

<p>A slightly sticky hand tried to take hers, but she clenched
her fist. She would go to South America and work for Lady
Metroland ... and she wouldn’t say anything about it to
Humility either. She glared straight in front of her, saw
Mrs Panrast and dropped her eyes.</p>

<hr/>

<p>The ballroom was filled with little gilt chairs and the
chairs with people. Lord Vanburgh, conveniently seated
near the door, through which he could slip away to the
telephone, was taking them all in. They were almost all, in
some way or another, notable. The motives for Margot
Metroland’s second marriage<a id='rB'/><a href='#fB' style='text-decoration:none'><sup><span style='font-size:0.9em'>[B]</span></sup></a> had been mixed, but entirely
worldly; chief among them had been the desire to reestablish
her somewhat shaken social position, and her party that
night testified to her success, for while many people can
entertain the Prime Minister and the Duchess of Stayle and
Lady Circumference, and anybody can, and often against
her will does, entertain Miles Malpractice and Agatha
Runcible, it is only a very confident hostess who will invite
both these sets together at the same time, differing, as they
do, upon almost all questions of principle and deportment.
Standing near Vanburgh, by the door, was a figure who
seemed in himself to typify the change that had come over
Pastmaster House when Margot Beste-Chetwynd became
Lady Metroland; an unobtrusive man of rather less than
average height, whose black beard, falling in tight burnished
curls, nearly concealed the order of St Michael and St
George which he wore round his neck; he wore a large signet
ring on the little finger of his left hand outside his white
glove; there was an orchid in his buttonhole. His eyes,
youthful but grave, wandered among the crowd; occasionally
he bowed with grace and decision. Several people
were asking about him.</p>

<hr/>

<div class='footnote'>
<p class='footnote'>
<span class='footnote-id' id='fB'><a href='#rB'>[B]</a></span>

See <i>Decline and Fall</i>.</p>

</div>

<hr/>

<p>‘See the beaver with the medal,’ said Humility to Faith.</p>

<p>‘Who is that <i>very</i> important young man?’ asked Mrs
Blackwater of Lady Throbbing.</p>

<p>‘I don’t know, dear. He bowed to <i>you</i>.’</p>

<p>‘He bowed to <i>you</i>, dear.’</p>

<p>‘How very nice ... I wasn’t quite sure.... He reminds
me a little of dear Prince Anrep.’</p>

<p>‘It’s so nice in these days, isn’t it, dearest, to see some one
who really looks ... don’t you think?’</p>

<p>‘You mean the beard?’</p>

<p>‘<i>The beard among other things</i>, darling.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Father Rothschild was conspiring with Mr Outrage and
Lord Metroland. He stopped short in the middle of his sentence.</p>

<p>‘Forgive me,’ he said, ‘but there are spies everywhere.
That man with the beard, do you know him?’</p>

<p>Lord Metroland thought vaguely he had something to do
with the Foreign Office; Mr Outrage seemed to remember
having seen him before.</p>

<p>‘<i>Exactly</i>,’ said Father Rothschild. ‘I think it would be
better if we continued our conversation in private. I have
been watching him. <span class='it'>He is bowing across the room to empty
places and to people whose backs are turned to him.</span>’ The
Great Men withdrew to Lord Metroland’s study. Father
Rothschild closed the door silently and looked behind the
curtains.</p>

<p>‘Shall I lock the door?’ asked Lord Metroland.</p>

<p>‘No,’ said the Jesuit. ‘A lock does not prevent a spy from
hearing; but it does hinder us, inside, from catching the
spy.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I should never have thought of that,’ said Mr
Outrage in frank admiration.</p>

<hr/>

<p>‘How pretty Nina Blount is,’ said Lady Throbbing, busy
from the front row with her lorgnette, ‘but don’t you think,
a little changed; almost as though ...’</p>

<p>‘You notice everything, darling.’</p>

<p>‘When you get to our age, dear, there is so little left, but I
do believe Miss Blount must have had an <i>experience</i> ...
she’s sitting next to Miles. You know I heard from Edward
to-night. He’s on his way back. It will be a great blow for
Miles because he’s been living in Edward’s house all this
time. To tell you the truth I’m a little glad because from
what I hear from Anne Opalthorpe, who lives opposite, the
things that go on ... he’s got a friend staying there now.
Such an odd man—a dirt-track racer. But then it’s no use
attempting to disguise the fact, is there.... There’s Mrs
Panrast ... yes, dear, of course you know her, she used to
be Eleanor Balcairn ... now <i>why</i> does dear Margot ask any
one like that, do you think? ... it is not as though Margot
was so innocent ... and there’s Lord Monomark ... yes,
the man who owns those <i>amusing</i> papers ... they say that
he and Margot, but <i>before</i> her marriage, of course (her
second marriage, I mean), but you never know, do you, how
things <i>crop</i> up again? ... I wonder where Peter Pastmaster
is? ... he never stays to Margot’s parties ... he was at
dinner, of course, and, my dear, <i>how</i> he drank.... He
can’t be more than twenty-one.... Oh, so that is Mrs Ape.
What a coarse face ... no dear, of course she can’t hear ...
she looks like a <i>procureuse</i> ... but perhaps I shouldn’t say
that <i>here</i>, should I?’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Adam came and sat next to Nina.</p>

<p>‘Hullo,’ they said to each other.</p>

<p>‘My dear, do look at Mary Mouse’s new young man,’ said
Nina.</p>

<p>Adam looked and saw that Mary was sitting next to the
Maharajah of Pukkapore.</p>

<p>‘I call that a pretty pair,’ he said.</p>

<p>‘Oh, how bored I feel,’ said Nina.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Mr Benfleet was there talking to two poets. They said
‘... and I wrote to tell William that I didn’t write the
review, but it was true that Tony did read me the review
over the telephone when I was very sleepy before he sent it
in. I thought it was best to tell him the truth because he
would hear it from Tony anyway. Only I said I advised him
not to publish it just as I had advised William not to publish
the book in the first place. Well Tony rang up Michael and
told him that I’d said that William thought Michael had
written the review because of the reviews I had written of
Michael’s book last November, though, as a matter of fact,
it was Tony himself who wrote it....’</p>

<p>‘Too bad,’ said Mr Benfleet. ‘Too bad.’</p>

<p>‘... but is that any reason, even if I had written it, why
Michael should tell Tony that I had stolen five pounds from
William?’</p>

<p>‘Certainly not,’ said Mr Benfleet. ‘Too bad.’</p>

<p>‘Of course, they’re <i>simply</i> not <i>gentlemen</i>, either of them.
That’s all it is, only one’s shy of saying it nowadays.’</p>

<p>Mr Benfleet shook his head sadly and sympathetically.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Then Mrs Melrose Ape stood up to speak. A hush fell in the
gilt ballroom beginning at the back and spreading among the
chairs until only Mrs Blackwater’s voice was heard exquisitely
articulating some details of Lady Metroland’s past. Then
she, too, was silent and Mrs Ape began her oration about Hope.</p>

<p>‘Brothers and Sisters,’ she said in a hoarse, stirring voice.
Then she paused and allowed her eyes, renowned throughout
three continents for their magnetism, to travel among
the gilded chairs. (It was one of her favourite openings.)
‘<i>Just you look at yourselves</i>,’ she said.</p>

<p>Magically, self-doubt began to spread in the audience.
Mrs Panrast stirred uncomfortably; had that silly little girl
been talking, she wondered.</p>

<p>‘Darling,’ whispered Miss Runcible, ‘is my nose awful?’</p>

<p>Nina thought how once, only twenty-four hours ago, she
had been in love. Mr Benfleet thought should he have made
it three per cent. on the tenth thousand. The gate-crashers
wondered whether it would not have been better to have
stayed at home. (Once in Kansas City Mrs Ape had got no
further than these opening words; there had been a tornado
of emotion and all the seats in the hall had been broken to
splinters. It was there that Humility had joined the Angels.)
There were a thousand things in Lady Throbbing’s past.
... Every heart found something to bemoan.</p>

<p>‘She’s got ’em again,’ whispered Creative Endeavour.
‘Got ’em stiff.’</p>

<p>Lord Vanburgh slipped from the room to telephone
through some racy paragraphs about fashionable piety.</p>

<p>Mary Mouse shed two little tears and felt for the brown,
bejewelled hand of the Maharajah.</p>

<p>But suddenly on that silence vibrant with self-accusation
broke the organ voice of England, the hunting-cry of the
<i>ancien régime</i>. Lady Circumference gave a resounding snort
of disapproval:</p>

<p>‘What a damned impudent woman,’ she said.</p>

<p>Adam and Nina and Miss Runcible began to giggle, and
Margot Metroland for the first time in her many parties was
glad to realize that the guest of the evening was going to be a
failure. It had been an awkward moment.</p>

<hr/>

<p>In the study Father Rothschild and Mr Outrage were
plotting with enthusiasm. Lord Metroland was smoking a
cigar and wondering how soon he could get away. He wanted
to hear Mrs Ape and to have another look at those Angels.
There was one with red hair.... Besides all this statesmanship
and foreign policy had always bored him. In his
years in the Commons he had always liked a good scrap, and
often thought a little wistfully of those orgies of competitive
dissimulation in which he had risen to eminence. Even now,
when some straightforward, easily intelligible subject was
under discussion, such as poor people’s wages or public art,
he enjoyed from time to time making a sonorous speech to the
Upper House. But this sort of thing was not at all in his line.</p>

<p>Suddenly Father Rothschild turned out the light.</p>

<p>‘There’s some one coming down the passage,’ he said.</p>

<p>‘Quick, get behind the curtains.’</p>

<p>‘Really, Rothschild ...’ said Mr Outrage.</p>

<p>‘I say ...’ said Lord Metroland.</p>

<p>‘<i>Quick</i>,’ said Father Rothschild.</p>

<p>The three statesmen hid themselves. Lord Metroland,
still smoking, his head thrown back and his cigar erect. They
heard the door open. The light was turned on. A match was
struck. Then came the slight tinkle of the telephone as
someone lifted the receiver.</p>

<p>‘Central ten thousand,’ said a slightly muffled voice.</p>

<p>‘<i>Now</i>,’ said Father Rothschild, and stepped through the
curtain.</p>

<p>The bearded stranger who had excited his suspicions was
standing at the table smoking one of Lord Metroland’s
cigars and holding the telephone.</p>

<p>‘Oh, hullo,’ he said, ‘I didn’t know you were here. Just
thought I’d use the telephone. So sorry. Won’t disturb you.
Jolly party, isn’t it? Good-bye.’</p>

<p>‘Stay exactly where you are,’ said Father Rothschild, ‘and
take off that beard.’</p>

<p>‘Damned if I do,’ said the stranger crossly. ‘It’s no use
talking to me as though I were one of your choir boys ...
you old <i>bully</i>.’</p>

<p>‘Take off that beard,’ said Father Rothschild.</p>

<p>‘Take off that beard,’ said Lord Metroland and the Prime
Minister, emerging suddenly from behind the curtain.</p>

<p>This concurrence of Church and State, coming so unexpectedly
after an evening of prolonged embarrassment, was
too much for Simon.</p>

<p>‘Oh, all right,’ he said, ‘if you <i>will</i> make such a <i>thing</i>
about it ... it hurts too frightfully, if you knew ... it
ought to be soaked in hot water ... ooh ... ow.’</p>

<p>He gave some tugs at the black curls, and bit by bit they
came away.</p>

<p>‘<i>There</i>’, he said. ‘Now I should go and make Lady
Throbbing take off her wig.... I should have a really jolly
evening while you’re about it, if I were you.’</p>

<p>‘I seem to have over-estimated the gravity of the situation,’
said Father Rothschild.</p>

<p>‘Who is it, after all this?’ said Mr Outrage. ‘Where are
those detectives? What does it all mean?’</p>

<p>‘That’ said Father Rothschild bitterly, ‘is <i>Mr Chatterbox</i>.’</p>

<p>‘Never heard of him. I don’t believe there is such a person....
<i>Chatterbox</i>, indeed ... you make us hide behind a
curtain and then you tell us that some young man in a false
beard is called Chatterbox. Really, Rothschild ...’</p>

<p>‘Lord Balcairn,’ said Lord Metroland, ‘will you kindly
leave my house immediately?’</p>

<p>‘<i>Is</i> this young man called Chatterbox or is he not? ...
Upon my soul, I believe you’re all crazy.’</p>

<p>‘Oh yes, I’m going,’ said Simon. ‘You didn’t think I was
going to go back to the party like this, did you?—or did
you?’ Indeed, he looked very odd with little patches of black
hair still adhering to parts of his chin and cheeks.</p>

<p>‘Lord Monomark is here this evening. I shall certainly inform
him of your behaviour ...’</p>

<p>‘He writes for the papers,’ Father Rothschild tried to
explain to the Prime Minister.</p>

<p>‘Well, damn it, so do I, but I don’t wear a false beard and
call myself Chatterbox.... I simply do not understand
what has happened.... Where are those detectives? ...
Will no one explain? ... <i>You treat me like a child</i>,’ he said.
It was all like one of those Cabinet meetings, when they all
talked about something he didn’t understand and paid no
attention to him.</p>

<p>Father Rothschild led him away, and attempted with
almost humiliating patience and tact to make clear to him
some of the complexities of modern journalism.</p>

<p>‘I don’t believe a word of it,’ the Prime Minister kept
saying. ‘It’s all humbug. You’re keeping something back.
... <i>Chatterbox</i>, indeed.’</p>

<p>Simon Balcairn was given his hat and coat and shown to
the door. The crowd round the awning had dispersed. It was
still raining. He walked back to his little flat in Bourdon
Street. The rain washed a few of the remaining locks from
his face; it dripped down his collar.</p>

<p>They were washing a car outside his front door; he crept
between it and his dustbin, fitted his latchkey in the lock
and went upstairs. His flat was like <i>Chez Espinosa</i>—all oilcloth
and Lalique glass; there were some enterprising
photographs by David Lennox, a gramophone (on the
instalment system) and numberless cards of invitation on the
mantelpiece. His bath towel was where he had left it on his bed.</p>

<p>Simon went to the ice box in the kitchen and chipped off
some ice. Then he made himself a cocktail. Then he went to
the telephone.</p>

<p>‘Central ten thousand ...’ he said. ‘... give me Mrs
Brace. Hullo, this is Balcairn.’</p>

<p>‘Well ... gotcher story?’</p>

<p>‘Oh yes, I’ve got my story, only this isn’t gossip, it’s news—front
page. You’ll have to fill up the Chatterbox page on
Espinosa’s.’</p>

<p>‘Hell!’</p>

<p>‘Wait till you see the story.... Hullo, give me news, will
you.... This is Balcairn. Put on one of the boys to take this
down, will you? ... ready? All right.’</p>

<p>At his glass-topped table, sipping his cocktail, Simon Balcairn
dictated his last story.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Scenes of wild religious enthusiasm, comma, reminiscent of
a negro camp-meeting in Southern America, comma, broke
out in the heart of Mayfair yesterday evening at the party
given for the famous American Revivalist Mrs Ape by the
Viscountess Metroland, formerly the Hon. Mrs Beste-Chetwynd,
at her historic mansion, Pastmaster House, stop. The
magnificent ballroom can never have enshrined a more brilliant
assembly ...</span>’</p>

<p>It was his swan-song. Lie after monstrous lie bubbled up
in his brain.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>... The Hon. Agatha Runcible joined Mrs Ape among
the orchids and led the singing, tears coursing down her face
...</span>’</p>

<p>Excitement spread at the <i>Excess</i> office. The machines were
stopped. The night staff of reporters, slightly tipsy, as
always at that hour, stood over the stenographer as he
typed. The compositors snatched the sheets of copy as they
came. The sub-editors began ruthlessly cutting and scrapping;
they suppressed important political announcements,
garbled the evidence at a murder trial, reduced the dramatic
criticism to one caustic paragraph, to make room for Simon’s
story.</p>

<p>It came through ‘hot and strong, as nice as mother makes
it,’ as one of them remarked.</p>

<p>‘Little Lord Fauntleroy’s on a good thing at last,’ said
another.</p>

<p>‘What-ho,’ said a third appreciatively.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>... barely had Lady Everyman finished before the Countess
of Throbbing rose to confess her sins, and in a voice broken
with emotion disclosed the hitherto unverified details of the
parentage of the present Earl....</span>’</p>

<p>‘Tell Mr Edwardes to look up photographs of all three of
’em,’ said the assistant news editor.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>... The Marquess of Vanburgh shaken by sobs of contrition
.... Mrs Panrast, singing feverishly.... Lady Anchorage
with downcast eyes.</span>’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>... The Archbishop of Canterbury, who up to now had
remained unmoved by the general emotion, then testified that
at Eton in the ’eighties he and Sir James Brown ...</span>’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>... the Duchess of Stayle next threw down her emerald
and diamond tiara, crying “a Guilt Offering”, an example
which was quickly followed by the Countess of Circumference
and Lady Brown, until a veritable rain of precious stones fell
on to the parquet flooring, heirlooms of priceless value rolling
among Tecla pearls and Chanel diamonds. A blank cheque
fluttered from the hands of the Maharajah of Pukkapore ...</span>’</p>

<p>It made over two columns, and when Simon finally rang
off, after receiving the congratulations of his colleagues, he
was for the first time in his journalistic experience perfectly
happy about his work. He finished the watery dregs of the
cocktail shaker and went into the kitchen. He shut the door
and the window and opened the door of the gas oven. Inside
it was very black and dirty and smelled of meat. He
spread a sheet of newspaper on the lowest tray and lay down,
resting his head on it. Then he noticed that by some mischance
he had chosen Vanburgh’s gossip-page in the <span class='it'>Morning
Despatch</span>. He put in another sheet. (There were crumbs
on the floor.) Then he turned on the gas. It came surprisingly
with a loud roar; the wind of it stirred his hair and the remaining
particles of his beard. At first he held his breath.
Then he thought that was silly and gave a sniff. The sniff
made him cough, and coughing made him breathe, and
breathing made him feel very ill; but soon he fell into a
coma and presently died.</p>

<p>So the last Earl of Balcairn went, as they say, to his
fathers (who had fallen in many lands and for many causes,
as the eccentricities of British Foreign Policy and their own
wandering natures had directed them; at Acre and Agincourt
and Killiecrankie, in Egypt and America. One had
been picked white by fishes as the tides rolled him among
the tree-tops of a submarine forest; some had grown black
and unfit for consideration under tropical suns; while many
of them lay in marble tombs of extravagant design).</p>

<hr/>

<p>At Pastmaster House, Lady Metroland and Lord Monomark
were talking about him. Lord Monomark was roaring
with boyish laughter.</p>

<p>‘That’s a great lad,’ he said. ‘Came in a false beard, did
he? That’s peppy. What’d you say his name was? I’ll raise
him to-morrow first thing.’</p>

<p>And he turned to give Simon’s name to an attendant
secretary.</p>

<p>And when Lady Metroland began to expostulate, he shut
her up rather discourteously.</p>

<p>‘Shucks, Margot,’ he said. ‘You know better than to get
on a high horse with me.’</p>

<h2>Chapter Seven</h2>

<p>Then Adam became Mr Chatterbox. He and Nina were
lunching at Espinosa’s and quarrelling half-heartedly when
a business-like, Eton-cropped woman came across to their
table, whom Adam recognized as the social editress of the
<i>Daily Excess</i>.</p>

<p>‘See here,’ she said, ‘weren’t you over at the office with
Balcairn the day he did himself in?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘Well, a pretty mess he’s let us in for. Sixty-two writs for
libel up to date and more coming in. And that’s not the
worst. Left me to do his job and mine. I was wondering if
you could tell me the names of any of these people and anything
about them.’</p>

<p>Adam pointed out a few well-worn faces.</p>

<p>‘Yes, they ain’t no good. They’re on the black list. You
see, Monomark was in an awful way about Balcairn’s story
of Lady Metroland’s party, and he’s sent down a chit that
none of the people who are bringing actions against the
paper can be mentioned again. Well, I ask you, what’s one
to do? It’s just bricks without straw. Why, we can’t even
mention the Prime Minister or the Archbishop of Canterbury.
I suppose you don’t know of any one who’d care to take
on the job? They’d have to be a pretty good mutt, if they
would.’</p>

<p>‘What do they pay?’</p>

<p>‘Ten pounds a week and expenses. Know any one?’</p>

<p>‘I’d do it myself for that.’</p>

<p>‘<i>You?</i>’ The social editress looked at him sceptically.
‘Would you be any good?’</p>

<p>‘I’ll try for a week or two.’</p>

<p>‘That’s about as long as any one sticks it. All right, come
back to the office with me when you’ve finished lunch. You
can’t cause more trouble than Balcairn, anyhow, and he
looked the goods at first.’</p>

<p>‘Now we can get married,’ said Nina.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Meanwhile the libel actions against the authors, printers
and publishers of Simon Balcairn’s last story practically
paralysed the judicial system of the country. The old brigade,
led by Mrs Blackwater, threw themselves with relish into an
orgy of litigation such as they had not seen since the war
(one of the younger counsel causing Lady Throbbing particular
delight.... ‘I do think, when you get to my age,
dear, there is something <i>sympathetique</i> about a wig, don’t
you? ...’). The younger generation for the most part
allowed their cases to be settled out of court and later gave a
very delightful party on the proceeds in a captive dirigible.
Miss Runcible, less well advised, filled two albums with
Press cuttings portraying her various appearances at the
Law Courts, sometimes as plaintiff, sometimes as witness,
sometimes (in a hat borrowed from Miss Mouse) as part of
the queue of ‘fashionably dressed women waiting for admission’,
once as an intruder being removed by an usher
from the Press gallery, and finally as prisoner being sentenced
to a fine of ten pounds or seven days’ imprisonment
for contempt of court.</p>

<p>The proceedings were considerably complicated by the
behaviour of Mrs Ape, who gave an interview in which she
fully confirmed Simon Balcairn’s story. She also caused her
Press agent to wire a further account to all parts of the
world. She then left the country with her angels, having
received a sudden call to ginger up the religious life of Oberammergau.</p>

<p>At intervals letters arrived from Buenos Aires in which
Chastity and Divine Discontent spoke rather critically of
Latin American entertainment.</p>

<p>‘They didn’t know when they was well off,’ said Mrs Ape.</p>

<p>‘It don’t sound much different from us,’ said Creative
Endeavour wistfully.</p>

<p>‘They won’t be dead five minutes before <i>they</i> see the
difference,’ said Mrs Ape.</p>

<p>Edward Throbbing and two secretaries returned to Hertford
Street somewhat inopportunely for Miles and his dirt-track
racer, who were obliged to move into Shepheard’s.
Miles said that the thing he resented about his brother’s
return was not so much the inconvenience as the expense.
For some weeks Throbbing suffered from the successive
discoveries by his secretaries of curious and compromising
things in all parts of the house; his butler, too, seemed
changed. He hiccoughed heavily while serving dinner to
two Secretaries of State, complained of spiders in his bath
and the sound of musical instruments, and finally had ‘the
horrors’, ran mildly amok in the pantry with the kitchen
poker, and had to be taken away in a van. Long after these
immediate causes of distress had been removed, the life of
Throbbing’s secretaries was periodically disturbed by ambiguous
telephone calls and the visits of menacing young
men who wanted new suits or tickets to America, or a fiver
to go on with.</p>

<p>But all these events, though of wide general interest, are
of necessity a closed book to the readers of Mr Chatterbox’s
page.</p>

<p>Lord Monomark’s black list had made a devastating
change in the personnel of the <i>Daily Excess</i> gossip. In a
single day Mr Chatterbox’s readers found themselves plunged
into a murky underworld of nonentities. They were shown
photographs of the misshapen daughters of backwoods peers
carrying buckets of meal to their fathers’ chickens; they
learned of the engagement of the younger sister of the
Bishop of Chertsey and of a dinner party given in Elm Park
Gardens by the widow of a High Commissioner to some of
the friends she had made in their colony. There were
details of the blameless home life of women novelists, photographed
with their spaniels before rose-covered cottages;
stories of undergraduate ‘rags’ and regimental reunion dinners;
anecdotes from Harley Street and the Inns of Court;
snaps and snippets about cocktail parties given in basement
flats by spotty announcers at the B.B.C., of tea dances in
Gloucester Terrace and jokes made at High Table by dons.</p>

<p>Urged on by the taunts of the social editress, Adam
brought new enterprise and humanity into this sorry column.
He started a series of ‘Notable Invalids’, which was
from the first, wildly successful. He began chattily. ‘<span class='it'>At a
dinner party the other evening my neighbour and I began to
compile a list of the most popular deaf peeresses. First, of
course, came old Lady——...</span>’</p>

<p>Next day he followed it up with a page about deaf peers
and statesmen; then about the one-legged, blind and bald.
Postcards of appreciation poured in from all over the country.</p>

<p>‘<i>I have read your column for many years now</i>,’ wrote a
correspondent from Bude, ‘<span class='it'>but this is the first time I have
really enjoyed it. I have myself been deaf for a long time, and
it is a great comfort to me to know that my affliction is shared
by so many famous men and women. Thank you, Mr Chatterbox,
and good luck to you.</span>’</p>

<p>Another wrote: ‘<span class='it'>Ever since childhood I have been cursed
with abnormally large ears which have been a source of
ridicule to me and a serious handicap in my career (I am a
chub fuddler). I should be so glad to know whether any great
people have suffered in the same way.</span>’</p>

<p>Finally, he ransacked the lunatic asylums and mental
houses of the country, and for nearly a week ran an
extremely popular series under the heading ‘Titled Eccentrics’.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>It is not generally known that the Earl of——, who lives
in strict retirement, has the unusual foible of wearing costume
of the Napoleonic Period. So great, indeed, is his detestation
of modern dress that on one occasion ...</span>’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Lord——, whose public appearances are regrettably rare
nowadays, is a close student of comparative religions. There
is an amusing story of how, when lunching with the then Dean
of Westminster, Lord—— startled his host by proclaiming
that so far from being of divine ordinance, the Ten Commandments
were, in point of fact, composed by himself and
delivered by him to Moses on Sinai....</span>’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Lady——, whose imitations of animal sounds are so lifelike
that she can seldom be persuaded to converse in any other
way, ...</span>’</p>

<p>And so on.</p>

<p>Besides this, arguing that people did not really mind
<i>whom</i> they read about provided that a kind of vicarious inquisitiveness
into the lives of others was satisfied, Adam
began to invent people.</p>

<p>He invented a sculptor called Provna, the son of a Polish
nobleman, who lived in a top-floor studio in Grosvenor
House. Most of his work (which was all in private hands)
was constructed in cork, vulcanite and steel. The Metropolitan
Museum at New York, Mr Chatterbox learned, had
been negotiating for some time to purchase a specimen, but
so far had been unable to outbid the collectors.</p>

<p>Such is the power of the Press, that soon after this a steady
output of early Provnas began to travel from Warsaw to
Bond Street and from Bond Street to California, while Mrs
Hoop announced to her friends that Provna was at the
moment at work on a bust of Johnny, which she intended
to present to the nation (a statement which Adam was
unable to record owing to the presence of Mrs Hoop’s name
on the black list, but which duly appeared, under a photograph
of Johnny, in the Marquess of Vanburgh’s rival
column).</p>

<p>Encouraged by his success, Adam began gradually to
introduce to his readers a brilliant and lovely company. He
mentioned them casually at first in lists of genuine people.
There was a popular young attaché at the Italian Embassy
called Count Cincinnati. He was descended from the famous
Roman Consul, Cincinnatus, and bore a plough as his crest.
Count Cincinnati was held to be the best amateur ’cellist in
London. Adam saw him one evening dancing at the Café de
la Paix. A few evenings later Lord Vanburgh noticed him at
Covent Garden, remarking that his collection of the original
designs for the Russian ballet was unequalled in Europe.
Two days later Adam sent him to Monte Carlo for a few
days’ rest, and Vanburgh hinted that there was more in this
visit than met the eye, and mentioned the daughter of a
well-known American hostess who was staying there at her
aunt’s villa.</p>

<p>There was a Captain Angus Stuart-Kerr, too, whose rare
appearances in England were a delight to his friends; unlike
most big-game hunters, he was an expert and indefatigable
dancer. Much to Adam’s disgust he found Captain Stuart-Kerr
taken up by an unknown gossip writer in a twopenny,
illustrated weekly, who saw him at a point-to-point meeting,
and remarked that he was well known as the hardest rider
in the Hebrides. Adam put a stop to that next day.</p>

<p>‘<i>Some people</i>,’ he wrote, ‘<span class='it'>are under the impression that
Captain Angus Stuart-Kerr, whom I mentioned on this page a
short time ago, is a keen rider. Perhaps they are confusing
him with Alastair Kerr-Stuart, of Inverauchty, a very
distant cousin. Captain Stuart-Kerr never rides, and for
a very interesting reason. There is an old Gaelic rhyme
repeated among his clansmen which says in rough translation
“the Laird rides well on two legs”. Tradition has it that
when the head of the house mounts a horse the clan will be
dispersed.</span>’<a id='rC'/><a href='#fC' style='text-decoration:none'><sup><span style='font-size:0.9em'>[C]</span></sup></a></p>

<hr/>

<div class='footnote'>
<p class='footnote'>
<span class='footnote-id' id='fC'><a href='#rC'>[C]</a></span>

This story, slightly expanded, found its way later into a
volume of Highland Legends called <i>Tales from the Mist</i>, which
has been approved to be read in elementary schools. This shows
the difference between what is called a ‘living’ as opposed to a
‘dead’ folk tradition.</p>

</div>

<hr/>

<p>But Adam’s most important creation was Mrs Andrew
Quest. There was always some difficulty about introducing
English people into his column as his readers had a way of
verifying his references in Debrett (as he knew to his cost,
for one day, having referred to the engagement of the third
and youngest daughter of a Welsh baronet, he received six
postcards, eighteen telephone calls, a telegram and a personal
visit of protest to inform him that there are two
equally beautiful sisters still in the schoolroom. The social
editress had been scathing about this). However, he put
Imogen Quest down one day, quietly and decisively, as the
most lovely and popular of the younger married set. And
from the first she exhibited signs of a marked personality.
Adam wisely eschewed any attempts at derivation, but his
readers nodded to each other and speedily supplied her
with an exalted if irregular origin. Everything else Adam
showered upon her. She had slightly more than average
height, and was very dark and slim, with large Laurencin
eyes and the negligent grace of the trained athlete (she
fenced with the sabre for half an hour every morning before
breakfast). Even Provna, who was notoriously indifferent
to conventional beauty, described her as ‘justifying the
century’.</p>

<p>Her clothes were incomparable, with just that suggestion
of the haphazard which raised them high above the mere
<i>chic</i> of the mannequin.</p>

<p>Her character was a lovely harmony of contending virtues—she
was witty and tender hearted; passionate and
serene, sensual and temperate, impulsive and discreet.</p>

<p>Her set, the most intimate and brilliant in Europe,
achieved a superb mean between those two poles of savagery
Lady Circumference and Lady Metroland.</p>

<p>Soon Imogen Quest became a byword for social inaccessibility—the
final goal for all climbers.</p>

<p>Adam went one day to a shop in Hanover Square to
watch Nina buy some hats and was seriously incommoded
by the heaps of bandboxes disposed on the chairs and dressing-tables
ostentatiously addressed to Mrs Andrew Quest.
He could hear her name spoken reverently in cocktail clubs,
and casually let slip in such phrases as ‘My dear, I never
see Peter now. He spends all his time with Imogen Quest,’
or ‘As Imogen would say ...’ or ‘I think the Quests have
got one like that. I must ask them where it came from.’ And
this knowledge on the intangible Quest set, moving among
them in uncontrolled dignity of life, seemed to leaven and
sweeten the lives of Mr Chatterbox’s readers.</p>

<p>One day Imogen gave a party, the preparations for which
occupied several paragraphs. On the following day Adam found
his table deep in letters of complaint from gate-crashers
who had found the house in Seamore Place untenanted.</p>

<p>Finally a message came down that Lord Monomark was
interested in Mrs Quest; could Mr Chatterbox arrange a
meeting. That day the Quests sailed for Jamaica.</p>

<p>Adam also attempted in an unobtrusive way to exercise
some influence over the clothes of his readers. ‘<span class='it'>I noticed at
the Café de la Paix yesterday evening</span>,’ he wrote, ‘<span class='it'>that two
of the smartest men in the room were wearing black suède
shoes with their evening clothes—one of them, who shall be
nameless, was a Very Important Person indeed. I hear that
this fashion, which comes, like so many others, from New
York, is likely to become popular over here this season.</span>’ A
few days later he mentioned Captain Stuart-Kerr’s appearance
at the Embassy ‘<span class='it'>wearing, of course, the ultra-fashionable
black suède shoes</span>’. In a week he was gratified to notice
that Johnny Hoop and Archie Schwert had both followed
Captain Stuart-Kerr’s lead, while in a fortnight the big
emporiums of ready-made clothes in Regent Street had
transposed their tickets in the windows and arranged rows
of black suède shoes on a silver step labelled ‘For evening
wear’.</p>

<p>His attempt to introduce a bottle-green bowler hat, however,
was not successful; in fact, a ‘well-known St James’s
Street hatter’, when interviewed by an evening paper on
the subject, said that he had never seen or heard of such a
thing, and though he would not refuse to construct one if
requested to by an old customer, he was of the opinion that
no old customer of his would require a hat of that kind
(though there was a sad case of an impoverished old beau
who attempted to stain a grey hat with green ink, as once in
years gone by he had been used to dye the carnation for his
buttonhole).</p>

<p>As the days passed, Mr Chatterbox’s page became almost
wholly misleading. With sultanesque caprice Adam would
tell his readers of inaccessible eating-houses which were now
the centre of fashion; he drove them to dance in temperance
hotels in Bloomsbury. In a paragraph headed ‘Montparnasse
in Belgravia’, he announced that the buffet at Sloane
Square tube station had become the haunt of the most
modern artistic coterie (Mr Benfleet hurried there on his
first free evening, but saw no one but Mrs Hoop and Lord
Vanburgh and a plebeian topper with a celluloid collar).</p>

<p>As a last resort, on those hopeless afternoons when invention
failed and that black misanthropy settled on him
which waits alike on gossip writer and novelist, Adam
sometimes found consolation in seizing upon some gentle
and self-effacing citizen and transfiguring him with a blaze
of notoriety.</p>

<p>He did this with a man called Ginger.</p>

<p>As part of his duties, which led him into many unusual
places, Adam and Nina went up to Manchester for the
November Handicap. Here they had the disheartening
experience of seeing Indian Runner come in an easy winner
and the totalisator paying out thirty-five to one. It was
during the bottle-green bowler campaign, and Adam was
searching in vain for any sign of his influence when,
suddenly, among the crowd, he saw the genial red face of
the drunk Major to whom he had entrusted his thousand
pounds at Lottie’s. It seemed odd that a man so bulky could
be so elusive. Adam was not sure whether the Major saw
him, but in some mysterious way Adam’s pursuit coincided
with the Major’s complete disappearance. The crowd became
very dense, brandishing flasks and sandwiches. When Adam
reached the spot where the Major had stood he found two
policemen arresting a pickpocket.</p>

<p>‘ ’Ere, who are you pushing?’ asked the spectators.</p>

<p>‘Have you seen a drunk Major anywhere?’ asked Adam.</p>

<p>But no one could help him, and he returned disconsolately
to Nina, whom he found in conversation with a young man
with a curly red moustache.</p>

<p>The young man said he was fed up with racing, and
Adam said he was too; so the young man said why didn’t
they come back to London in his bus, so Adam and Nina said
they would. The bus turned out to be a very large, brand-new
racing car, and they got to London in time for dinner.
Nina explained that the young man used to play with her as
a child, and that he had been doing something military in
Ceylon for the last five years. The young man’s name was
Eddy Littlejohn, but over dinner he said, look here, would
they call him Ginger; every one else did. So they began
to call him Ginger, and he said wouldn’t it be a good idea
if they had another bottle of fizz, and Nina and Adam
said yes, it would, so they had a magnum and got very
friendly.</p>

<p>‘You know,’ said Ginger, ‘it was awful luck meeting you
two to-day. I was getting awfully fed up with London. It’s
so damn slow. I came back meaning to have a good time,
you know, paint the place red a bit, and all that. Well, the
other day I was reading the paper, and there was a bit that
said that the posh place to go to dance nowadays was the
Casanova Hotel in Bloomsbury. Well, it seemed a bit rum to
me—place I’d never heard of, you know—but, still, I’d been
away for some time and places change and all that, so I put
on my bib and tucker and toddled off, hoping for a bit of
innocent amusement. Well, I mean to say, you never saw
such a place. There were only about three people dancing, so
I said, “Where’s the bar?” And they said, “Bar!” And I
said, “You know, for a drink.” And they said, well, they
could probably make me some coffee. And I said, “No, not
coffee.” And then they said they hadn’t got a licence for
what they called alcohol. Well, I mean to say, if that’s the
best London can do, give me Colombo. I wonder who writes
things like that in the papers?’</p>

<p>‘As a matter of fact, <i>I</i> do.’</p>

<p>‘I say no, do you? You must be frightfully brainy. Did you
write all that about the green bowlers?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I mean to say, whoever heard of a green bowler, I
mean.... I tell you what, you know, I believe it was all a
leg pull. You know, I think that’s damn funny. Why, a
whole lot of poor mutts may have gone and bought green
bowlers.’</p>

<p>After this they went on to the Café de la Paix, where they
met Johnny Hoop, who asked them all to the party in a few
days’ time in the captive balloon.</p>

<p>But Ginger was not to be had twice.</p>

<p>‘Oh, no you know,’ he said, ‘not in a captive balloon.
You’re trying to pull the old leg again. Whoever heard of a
party in a captive balloon? I mean to say, suppose one fell
out, I mean?’</p>

<p>Adam telephoned his page through to the <i>Excess</i>, and
soon after this a coloured singer appeared, paddling his
black suède shoes in a pool of limelight, who excited Ginger’s
disapproval. He didn’t mind niggers, Ginger said;
remarking justly that niggers were all very well in their
place, but, after all, one didn’t come all the way from
Colombo to London just to see niggers. So they left the Café
de la Paix, and went to Lottie’s, where Ginger became a
little moody, saying that London wasn’t home to him any
more and that things were changed.</p>

<p>‘You know,’ said Ginger, ‘all the time I’ve been out in
Ceylon I’ve always said to myself, “As soon as the governor
kicks the bucket, and I come in for the family doubloons
and pieces of eight, I’m going to come back to England and
have a real old bust.” And now when it comes to the point
there doesn’t seem to be anything I much want to do.’</p>

<p>‘How about a little drink?’ said Lottie.</p>

<p>So Ginger had a drink, and then he and an American sang
the Eton Boating Song several times. At the end of the
evening he admitted that there was some life left in the jolly
old capital of the Empire.</p>

<p>Next day Mr Chatterbox’s readers learned that: ‘<span class='it'>Captain
“Ginger” Littlejohn, as he is known to his intimates, was
one of the well-known sporting figures at the November
Handicap who favoured the new bottle-green bowler. Captain
Littlejohn is one of the wealthiest and best-known bachelors in
Society, and I have lately heard his name spoken of in
connection with the marriage of the daughter of a famous
ducal house. He came all the way to yesterday’s races in his
own motor omnibus, which he drives himself ...</span>’</p>

<p>For some days Ginger’s name figured largely on Adam’s
page, to his profound embarrassment. Several engagements
were predicted for him, it was rumoured that he had signed
a contract with a film company, that he had bought a small
island in the Bristol Channel which he proposed to turn into
a country club, and that his forthcoming novel about
Singalese life contained many very thinly disguised portraits
of London celebrities.</p>

<p>But the green bowler joke had gone too far. Adam was
sent for by Lord Monomark.</p>

<p>‘Now see here, Symes,’ said the great man, ‘I like your
page. It’s peppy; it’s got plenty of new names in it and it’s
got the intimate touch I like. I read it every day and so does
my daughter. Keep on that way and you’ll be all right. But
<i>what’s all this about bottle-green bowlers</i>?’</p>

<p>‘Well, of course, sir, they’re only worn by a limited
number of people at present, but ...’</p>

<p>‘Have you got one? Show me a green bowler.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t wear one myself, I’m afraid.’</p>

<p>‘Well, where d’you see ’em? I haven’t seen one yet. My
daughter hasn’t seen one. Who does wear ’em? Where do
they buy ’em? That’s what I want to know. Now see here,
Symes, I don’t say that there ain’t any such thing as a green
bowler; there may be and again there mayn’t. But from
now on there are going to be no more bottle-green bowlers
in my paper. See. And another thing. This Count Cincinnati.
I don’t say <i>he</i> doesn’t exist. He may do and he mayn’t. But
the Italian Ambassador doesn’t know anything about him
and the Almanak de Gotha doesn’t. So as far as my paper
goes that’s good enough for him. And I don’t want any more
about Espinosa’s. They made out my bill wrong last night.</p>

<p>‘Got those three things clear? Tabulate them in the mind—1,
2, 3, that’s the secret of memory. Tab-u-late. All right,
then, run along now and tell the Home Secretary he can
come right in. You’ll find him waiting in the passage—ugly
little man with a pince-nez.’</p>

<h2>Chapter Eight</h2>

<p>Two nights later Adam and Nina took Ginger to the party
in the captive dirigible. It was not a really good evening.
The long drive in Ginger’s car to the degraded suburb
where the airship was moored chilled and depressed them,
dissipating the gaiety which had flickered rather spasmodically
over Ginger’s dinner.</p>

<p>The airship seemed to fill the whole field, tethered a few
feet from the ground by innumerable cables over which they
stumbled painfully on the way to the steps. These had been
covered by a socially minded caterer with a strip of red
carpet.</p>

<p>Inside, the saloons were narrow and hot, communicating
to each other by spiral staircases and metal alleys. There
were protrusions at every corner, and Miss Runcible had
made herself a mass of bruises in the first half hour. There
was a band and a bar and all the same faces. It was the first
time that a party was given in an airship.</p>

<p>Adam went aloft to a kind of terrace. Acres of inflated silk
blotted out the sky, stirring just perceptibly in the breeze.
The lights of other cars arriving lit up the uneven grass. A
few louts had collected round the gates to jeer. There were
two people making love to each other near him on the
terrace, reclining on cushions. There was also a young
woman he did not know, holding one of the stays and breathing
heavily; evidently she felt unwell. One of the lovers lit a
cigar and Adam observed that they were Mary Mouse and
the Maharajah of Pukkapore.</p>

<p>Presently Nina joined him. ‘It seems such a waste,’ she
said, thinking of Mary and the Maharajah, ‘that two very
rich people like that should fall in love with each other.’</p>

<p>‘Nina,’ said Adam, ‘let’s get married soon, don’t you
think?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, it’s a bore not being married.’</p>

<p>The young woman who felt ill passed by them, walking
shakily, to try and find her coat and her young man to take
her home.</p>

<p>‘... I don’t know if it sounds absurd,’ said Adam, ‘but I
do feel that a marriage ought to <i>go on</i>—for quite a long
time, I mean. D’you feel that too, at all?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, it’s one of the things about a marriage!’</p>

<p>‘I’m glad you feel that. I didn’t quite know if you did.
Otherwise it’s all rather bogus, isn’t it?’</p>

<p>‘I think you ought to go and see papa again,’ said Nina.
‘It’s never any good writing. Go and tell him that you’ve
got a job and are terribly rich and that we’re going to be
married before Christmas!’</p>

<p>‘All right. I’ll do that.’</p>

<p>‘... D’you remember last month we arranged for you to
go and see him the first time? ... just like this ... it was at
Archie Schwert’s party ...’</p>

<p>‘Oh, Nina, <i>what a lot of parties</i>.’</p>

<p>(... Masked parties, Savage parties, Victorian parties,
Greek parties, Wild West parties, Russian parties, Circus
parties, parties where one had to dress as somebody else,
almost naked parties in St John’s Wood, parties in flats and
studios and houses and ships and hotels and night clubs, in
windmills and swimming baths, tea parties at school where
one ate muffins and meringues and tinned crab, parties at
Oxford where one drank brown sherry and smoked Turkish
cigarettes, dull dances in London and comic dances in Scotland
and disgusting dances in Paris—all that succession and
repetition of massed humanity.... Those vile bodies ...)</p>

<p>He leant his forehead, to cool it, on Nina’s arm and kissed
her in the hollow of her forearm.</p>

<p>‘I <i>know</i>, darling,’ she said, and put her hand on his hair.</p>

<p>Ginger came strutting jauntily by, his hands clasped
under his coat-tails.</p>

<p>‘Hullo, you two,’ he said. ‘Pretty good show this, what.’</p>

<p>‘Are you enjoying yourself, Ginger?’</p>

<p>‘<i>Rather.</i> I say, I’ve met an awful good chap called Miles.
Regular topper. You know, <i>pally</i>. That’s what I like about a
really decent party—you meet such topping fellows. I mean
some chaps it takes absolutely years to know but a chap like
Miles I feel is a pal straight away.’</p>

<p>Presently cars began to drive away again. Miss Runcible
said that she had heard of a divine night club near Leicester
Square somewhere where you could get a drink at any hour
of the night. It was called the St Christopher’s Social Club.</p>

<p>So they all went there in Ginger’s car.</p>

<p>On the way Ginger said, ‘That cove Miles, you know,
he’s awfully <i>queer</i> ...’</p>

<p>St Christopher’s Social Club took some time to find.</p>

<p>It was a little door at the side of a shop, and the man who
opened it held his foot against it and peeped round.</p>

<p>They paid ten shillings each and signed false names in the
visitor’s book. Then they went downstairs to a very hot room
full of cigarette smoke; there were unsteady tables with
bamboo legs round the walls and there were some people in
shirt sleeves dancing on a shiny linoleum floor.</p>

<p>There was a woman in a yellow beaded frock playing a
piano and another in red playing the fiddle.</p>

<p>They ordered some whisky. The waiter said he was sorry,
but he couldn’t oblige, not that night he couldn’t. The police
had just rung up to say that they were going to make a raid
any minute. If they liked they could have some nice kippers.</p>

<p>Miss Runcible said that kippers were not very drunk-making
and that the whole club seemed bogus to her.</p>

<p>Ginger said well anyway they had better have some
kippers now they were there. Then he asked Nina to dance
and she said no. Then he asked Miss Runcible and she said
no, too.</p>

<p>Then they ate kippers.</p>

<p>Presently one of the men in shirt sleeves (who had clearly
had a lot to drink before the St Christopher Social Club knew
about the police) came up to their table and said to Adam:</p>

<p>‘You don’t know me. I’m Gilmour. I don’t want to start a
row in front of ladies, but when I see a howling cad I like to
tell him so.’</p>

<p>Adam said, ‘Why do you spit when you talk?’</p>

<p>Gilmour said, ‘That is a very unfortunate physical disability,
and it shows what a howling cad you are that you
mention it.’</p>

<p>Then Ginger said, ‘Same to you, old boy, with nobs on.’</p>

<p>Then Gilmour said, ‘Hullo, Ginger, old scout.’</p>

<p>And Ginger said, ‘Why, it’s Bill. You mustn’t mind Bill.
Awfully stout chap. Met him on the boat.’</p>

<p>Gilmour said, ‘Any pal of Ginger’s is a pal of mine.’</p>

<p>So Adam and Gilmour shook hands.</p>

<p>Gilmour said, ‘This is a pretty low joint, anyhow. You
chaps come round to my place and have a drink.’</p>

<p>So they went to Gilmour’s place.</p>

<p>Gilmour’s place was a bed-sitting room in Ryder Street.</p>

<p>So they sat on the bed in Gilmour’s place and drank
whisky while Gilmour was sick next door.</p>

<p>And Ginger said, ‘There’s nowhere like London really
you know.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>That same evening while Adam and Nina sat on the deck
of the dirigible a party of quite a different sort was being
given at Anchorage House. This last survivor of the noble
town houses of London was, in its time, of dominating and
august dimensions, and even now, when it had become a
mere ‘picturesque bit’ lurking in a ravine between concrete
skyscrapers, its pillared façade, standing back from the street
and obscured by railings and some wisps of foliage, had
grace and dignity and other-worldliness enough to cause a
flutter or two in Mrs Hoop’s heart as she drove into the forecourt.</p>

<p>‘Can’t you just see the <i>ghosts</i>? she said to Lady Circumference
on the stairs. ‘Pit and Fox and Burke and Lady
Hamilton and Beau Brummel and Dr Johnson’ (a concurrence
of celebrities, it may be remarked, at which something
memorable might surely have occurred). ‘Can’t you
just <i>see</i> them—in their buckled shoes?’</p>

<p>Lady Circumference raised her lorgnette and surveyed
the stream of guests debouching from the cloak-rooms like
City workers from the Underground. She saw Mr Outrage
and Lord Metroland in consultation about the Censorship
Bill (a statesmanlike and much-needed measure which empowered
a committee of five atheists to destroy all books,
pictures and films they considered undesirable, without any
nonsense about defence or appeal). She saw both Archbishops,
the Duke and Duchess of Stayle, Lord Vanburgh
and Lady Metroland, Lady Throbbing and Edward Throbbing
and Mrs Blackwater, Mrs Mouse and Lord Monomark
and a superb Levantine, and behind and about them a great
concourse of pious and honourable people (many of whom
made the Anchorage House reception the one outing of the
year), their women-folk well gowned in rich and durable
stuffs, their men-folk ablaze with orders; people who had
represented their country in foreign places and sent their
sons to die for her in battle, people of decent and temperate
life, uncultured, unaffected, unembarrassed, unassuming,
unambitious people, of independent judgment and marked
eccentricities, kind people who cared for animals and the
deserving poor, brave and rather unreasonable people, that
fine phalanx of the passing order, approaching as one day at
the Last Trump they hoped to meet their Maker, with
decorous and frank cordiality to shake Lady Anchorage by
the hand at the top of her staircase. Lady Circumference
saw all this and sniffed the exhalation of her own herd. But
she saw no ghosts.</p>

<p>‘That’s all my eye,’ she said.</p>

<p>But Mrs Hoop ascended step by step in a confused but
very glorious dream of eighteenth-century elegance.</p>

<hr/>

<p>The Presence of Royalty was heavy as thunder in the
drawing-room.</p>

<p>The Baroness Yoshiwara and the Prime Minister met
once more.</p>

<p>‘I tried to see you twice this week,’ she said, ‘but always
you were busy. We are leaving London. Perhaps you heard?
My husband has been moved to Washington. It was his
wish to go...’</p>

<p>‘No. I say, Baroness ... I had no idea. That’s very bad
news. We shall all miss you terribly.’</p>

<p>‘I thought perhaps I would come to make my adieux.
One day next week.’</p>

<p>‘Why, yes, of course, that would be delightful. You must
both come to dine. I’ll get my secretary to fix something up
to-morrow.’</p>

<p>‘It has been nice being in London ... you were kind.’</p>

<p>‘Not a bit. I don’t know what London would be without
our guests from abroad.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, twenty damns to your great pig-face,’ said the
Baroness suddenly and turned away.</p>

<p>Mr Outrage watched her bewildered. Finally he said,
‘For East is East and West is West and never the twain shall
meet’ (which was a poor conclusion for a former Foreign
Secretary).</p>

<p>Edward Throbbing stood talking to the eldest daughter of
the Duchess of Stayle. She was some inches taller than him
and inclined slightly so that, in the general murmur of
conversation, she should not miss any of his colonial experience.
She wore a frock such as only Duchesses can obtain
for their elder daughters, a garment curiously puckered and
puffed up and enriched with old lace at improbable places,
from which her pale beauty emerged as though from a
clumsily tied parcel. Neither powder, rouge nor lipstick had
played any part in her toilet and her colourless hair was
worn long and bound across her forehead in a broad fillet.
Long pearl drops hung from her ears and she wore a tight
little collar of pearls round her throat. It was generally
understood that now Edward Throbbing was back these
two would become engaged to be married.</p>

<p>Lady Ursula was acquiescent if unenthusiastic. When she
thought about marriage at all, which was rarely (for her
chief interests were a girls’ club in Canning Town and a
younger brother at school), she thought what a pity it was
that one had to be so ill to have children. Her married
friends spoke of this almost with relish and her mother with
awe.</p>

<p>An innate dilatoriness of character rather than any doubt
of the ultimate issue kept Edward from verbal proposal. He
had decided to arrange everything before Christmas and
that was enough. He had no doubt that a suitable occasion
would soon be devised for him. It was clearly suitable that
he should marry before he was thirty. Now and then when
he was with Ursula he felt a slight quickening of possessive
impulse towards her fragility and distance; occasionally
when he read some rather lubricious novel or saw much love-making
on the stage he would translate the characters in his
mind and put Lady Ursula, often incongruously, in the place
of the heroine. He had no doubt that he was in love. Perhaps
he would propose this very evening and get it over. It was up
to Lady Ursula to engineer an occasion. Meanwhile he kept
the conversation on to the subject of labour problems in
Montreal, about which his information was extensive and
accurate.</p>

<p>‘He’s a nice, steady boy,’ said the Duchess, ‘and it’s a
comfort, nowadays, to see two young people so genuinely
fond of each other. Of course, nothing is actually arranged
yet, but I was talking to Fanny Throbbing yesterday, and
apparently Edward has already spoken to her on the subject.
I think that everything will be settled before Christmas. Of
course, there’s not a great deal of money, but one’s learnt not
to expect that nowadays, and Mr Outrage speaks very highly
of his ability. Quite one of the coming men in the party.’</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said Lady Circumference, ‘you know your own
business, but if you ask me I shouldn’t care to see a daughter
of mine marry into that family. Bad hats every one of them.
Look at the father and the sister, and from all I hear the
brother is rotten all through.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t say it’s a match I should have chosen myself.
There’s certainly a bad strain in the Malpractices ... but
you know how headstrong children are nowadays, and they
seem so fond of each other ... and there seem so few young
men about. At least I never seem to see any.’</p>

<p>‘Young toads, the whole lot of them,’ said Lady Circumference.</p>

<p>‘And these <i>terrible</i> parties which I’m told they give. I
don’t know what I should have done if Ursula had ever
wanted to go to them ... the poor Chasms....’</p>

<p>‘If I were Viola Chasm I’d give that girl a thunderin’
good hidin’.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>The topic of the Younger Generation spread through the
company like a yawn. Royalty remarked on their absence
and those happy mothers who had even one docile daughter
in tow swelled with pride and commiseration.</p>

<p>‘I’m told that they’re having another of their parties,’
said Mrs Mouse, ‘in an aeroplane this time.’</p>

<p>‘In an aeroplane? How very extraordinary.’</p>

<p>‘Of course, I never hear a word from Mary, but her maid
told my maid ...’</p>

<p>‘What I always wonder, Kitty dear, is what they actually
<i>do</i> at these parties of theirs, I mean, <i>do</i> they ... ?’</p>

<p>‘My dear, from all I hear, I think they do.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, to be young again, Kitty. When I think, my dear, of
all the trouble and exertion which we had to go through to
be even moderately bad ... those passages in the early
morning, and mama sleeping next door.’</p>

<p>‘And yet, my dear, I doubt very much whether they
really <i>appreciate</i> it all as much as we should ... young
people take things so much for granted. <i>Si la jeunesse savait.</i>’</p>

<p>‘<i>Si la vieillesse pouvait</i>, Kitty.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Later that evening Mr Outrage stood almost alone in the
supper-room drinking a glass of champagne. Another episode
in his life was closed, another of those tantalizing
glimpses of felicity capriciously withdrawn. Poor Mr Outrage,
thought Mr Outrage; poor, poor old Outrage, always
just on the verge of revelation, of some sublime and transfiguring
experience; always frustrated.... Just Prime
Minister, nothing more, bullied by his colleagues, a source of
income to low caricaturists. Was Mr Outrage an immortal
soul, thought Mr Outrage; had he wings, was he free and
unconfined, was he born for eternity? He sipped his champagne,
fingered his ribbon of the Order of Merit, and
resigned himself to the dust.</p>

<p>Presently he was joined by Lord Metroland and Father
Rothschild.</p>

<p>‘Margot’s left—gone on to some party in an airship. I’ve
been talking to Lady Anchorage for nearly an hour about
the younger generation.’</p>

<p>‘Every one seems to have been talking about the younger
generation to-night. The most boring subject I know.’</p>

<p>‘Well, after all, what does all this stand for if there’s
going to be no one to carry it on?’</p>

<p>‘All what?’ Mr Outrage looked round the supper-room,
deserted save for two footmen who leant against the walls
looking as waxen as the clumps of flowers sent up that
morning from hothouses in the country. ‘What does all
what stand for?’</p>

<p>‘All this business of government.’</p>

<p>‘As far as I’m concerned it stands for a damned lot of hard
work and precious little in return. If those young people can
find a way to get on without it, good luck to them.’</p>

<p>‘I see what Metroland means,’ said Father Rothschild.</p>

<p>‘Blessed if I do. Anyway I’ve got no children myself, and
I’m thankful for it. I don’t understand them, and I don’t
want to. They had a chance after the war that no generation
has ever had. There was a whole civilization to be saved and
remade—and all they seem to do is to play the fool. Mind
you, I’m all in favour of them having a fling. I dare say that
Victorian ideas <i>were</i> a bit strait-laced. Saving your cloth,
Rothschild, it’s only human nature to run a bit loose when
one’s young. But there’s something wanton about these
young people to-day. That stepson of yours, Metroland, and
that girl of poor old Chasm’s and young Throbbing’s
brother.’</p>

<p>‘Don’t you think,’ said Father Rothschild gently, ‘that
perhaps it is all in some way historical? I don’t think people
ever <i>want</i> to lose their faith either in religion or anything
else. I know very few young people, but it seems to me
that they are all possessed with an almost fatal hunger for
permanence. I think all these divorces show that. People
aren’t content just to muddle along nowadays.... And this
word “bogus” they all use.... They won’t make the best of
a bad job nowadays. My private schoolmaster used to say, “If
a thing’s worth doing at all, it’s worth doing well.” My
Church has taught that in different words for several centuries.
But these young people have got hold of another end
of the stick, and for all we know it may be the right one.
They say, “If a thing’s not worth doing well, it’s not worth
doing at all.” It makes everything very difficult for them.’</p>

<p>‘Good heavens, I should think it did. What a darned silly
principle. I mean to say if one didn’t do anything that
wasn’t worth doing well—why, what <i>would</i> one do? I’ve
always maintained that success in this world depends on
knowing exactly how little effort each job is worth ...
distribution of energy.... And, I suppose, most people
would admit that I was a pretty successful man.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, I suppose they would, Outrage,’ said Father Rothschild,
looking at him rather quizzically.</p>

<p>But that self-accusing voice in the Prime Minister’s heart
was silent. There was nothing like a little argument for
settling the mind. Everything became so simple as soon as it
was put into words.</p>

<p>‘And anyway, what do you mean by “historical”?’</p>

<p>‘Well, it’s like this war that’s coming....’</p>

<p>‘<i>What war?</i>’ said the Prime Minister sharply. ‘No one
has said anything to me about a war. I really think I should
have been told. I’ll be damned,’ he said defiantly, ‘if they
shall have a war without consulting me. What’s a Cabinet
for if there’s not more mutual confidence than that? What
do they want a war for, anyway?’</p>

<p>‘That’s the whole point. No one talks about it, and no one
wants it. No one talks about it <i>because</i> no one wants it.
They’re all afraid to breathe a word about it.’</p>

<p>‘Well, hang it all, if no one wants it, who’s going to make
them have it?’</p>

<p>‘Wars don’t start nowadays because people want them.
We long for peace, and fill our newspapers with conferences
about disarmament and arbitration, but there is a radical
instability in our whole world-order, and soon we shall all be
walking into the jaws of destruction again, protesting our
pacific intentions.’</p>

<p>‘Well, you seem to know all about it,’ said Mr Outrage,
‘and I think I should have been told sooner. This will have
to mean a coalition with that old wind-bag Brown, I suppose.’</p>

<p>‘Anyhow,’ said Lord Metroland, ‘I don’t see how all that
explains why my stepson should drink like a fish and go
about everywhere with a negress.’</p>

<p>‘I think they’re connected, you know,’ said Father Rothschild.
‘But it’s all very difficult.’</p>

<p>Then they separated.</p>

<p>Father Rothschild pulled on a pair of overall trousers in
the forecourt and, mounting his motor cycle, disappeared
into the night, for he had many people to see and much
business to transact before he went to bed.</p>

<p>Lord Metroland left the house in some depression. Margot
had taken the car, but it was scarcely five minutes’ walk to
Hill Street. He took a vast cigar from his case, lit it and sank
his chin in the astrakhan collar of his coat, conforming
almost exactly to the popular conception of a highly enviable
man. But his heart was heavy. What a lot of
nonsense Rothschild had talked. At least he hoped it was
nonsense.</p>

<p>By ill-fortune he arrived on the doorstep to find Peter
Pastmaster fumbling with the lock, and they entered together.
Lord Metroland noticed a tall hat on the table by the
door. ‘Young Trumpington’s, I suppose,’ he thought. His
stepson did not once look at him, but made straight for the
stairs, walking unsteadily, his hat on the back of his head, his
umbrella still in his hand.</p>

<p>‘Good-night, Peter,’ said Lord Metroland.</p>

<p>‘Oh, go to hell,’ said his stepson thickly, then, turning on
the stairs, he added, ‘I’m going abroad to-morrow for a few
weeks. Will you tell my mother?’</p>

<p>‘Have a good time,’ said Lord Metroland. ‘You’ll find it
just as cold everywhere, I’m afraid. Would you care to take
the yacht? No one’s using it.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, go to hell.’</p>

<p>Lord Metroland went into the study to finish his cigar. It
would be awkward if he met young Trumpington on the
stairs. He sat down in a very comfortable chair.... A
radical instability, Rothschild had said, radical instability.
... He looked round his study and saw shelves of books—the
<i>Dictionary of National Biography</i>, the <span class='it'>Encyclopædia
Britannica</span> in an early and very bulky edition, <i>Who’s Who</i>,
Debrett, Burke, Whitaker, several volumes of Hansard,
some Blue Books and Atlases—a safe in the corner painted
green with a brass handle, his writing table, his secretary’s
table, some very comfortable chairs and some very business-like
chairs, a tray with decanters and a plate of sandwiches,
his evening mail laid out on the table ... radical instability,
indeed. How like poor old Outrage to let himself get taken in
by that charlatan of a Jesuit.</p>

<p>He heard the front door open and shut behind Alastair
Trumpington.</p>

<p>Then he rose and went quickly upstairs, leaving his cigar
smouldering in the ash-tray, filling the study with fragrant
smoke.</p>

<p>Quarter of a mile away the Duchess of Stayle went, as she
always did, to say good-night to her eldest daughter. She
crossed the room and drew up the window a few inches, for
it was a cold and raw night. Then she went over to the bed
and smoothed the pillow.</p>

<p>‘Good-night, dear child,’ she said, ‘I thought you looked
sweet to-night.’</p>

<p>Lady Ursula wore a white cambric night-gown with a
little yoke collar and long sleeves. Her hair hung in two
plaits.</p>

<p>‘Mama,’ she said. ‘Edward proposed to me to-night.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Darling.</i> What a funny girl you are. Why didn’t you tell
me before? You weren’t frightened, were you? You know
that your father and I are delighted at anything that makes
our little girl happy.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I said I wouldn’t marry him ... I’m sorry.’</p>

<p>‘But, my dear, it’s nothing to be sorry about. Leave it to
your old mother. I’ll put it all right for you in the morning.’</p>

<p>‘But, Mama, I don’t want to marry him. I didn’t know
until it actually came to the point. I’d always meant to
marry him, as you know. But somehow, when he actually
asked me ... I just couldn’t.’</p>

<p>‘There, dear child, you mustn’t worry any more. You
know perfectly well, don’t you, that your father and I would
not let you do anything you didn’t want. It’s a matter that
only you can decide. After all, it’s your life and your happiness
at stake, not ours, isn’t it, Ursula ... but I <i>think</i> you’d
better marry Edward.’</p>

<p>‘But, Mama, I don’t want to ... I couldn’t ... it would
kill me!’</p>

<p>‘Now, now, my pet mustn’t worry her head about it any
more. You know your father and I only want <i>your</i> happiness,
dear one. No one is going to make my darling girl do
anything she doesn’t want to.... Papa shall see Edward in
the morning and make everything all right ... dear Lady
Anchorage was only saying to-night what a lovely bride
you will make.’</p>

<p>‘But, Mama ...’</p>

<p>‘Not another word, dear child. It’s very late and you’ve
got to look your best for Edward to-morrow, haven’t you,
love?’</p>

<p>The Duchess closed the door softly and went to her own
room. Her husband was in his dressing-room.</p>

<p>‘Andrew.’</p>

<p>‘What is it, dear? I’m saying my prayers.’</p>

<p>‘Edward proposed to Ursula to-night.’</p>

<p>‘Ah!’</p>

<p>‘Aren’t you glad?’</p>

<p>‘I told you, dear, I’m trying to say my prayers.’</p>

<p>‘It’s a real joy to see the dear children so happy.’</p>

<h2>Chapter Nine</h2>

<p>At luncheon time next day Adam rang up Nina.</p>

<p>‘Nina, darling, are you awake?’</p>

<p>‘Well, I wasn’t ...’</p>

<p>‘Listen, do you really want me to go and see your papa
to-day?’</p>

<p>‘Did we say you were going to?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘Why?’</p>

<p>‘To say could we be married now I had a job.’</p>

<p>‘I remember ... yes, go and see him, darling. It would be
nice to be married.’</p>

<p>‘But, listen, what about my page?’</p>

<p>‘What page, angel?’</p>

<p>‘My page in the <i>Excess</i> ... my job, you know.’</p>

<p>‘Oh ... well, look ... Ginger and I will write that for
you.’</p>

<p>‘Wouldn’t that be a bore?’</p>

<p>‘I think it would be divine. I know just the sort of things
you say.... I expect Ginger does too by now, the poor
angel ... how he did enjoy himself last night.... I’m
going to sleep now ... such a pain ... good-bye, my sweet.’</p>

<p>Adam had some luncheon. Agatha Runcible was at the
next table with Archie Schwert. She said they were all
going to some motor races next day. Would Adam and Nina
come, too. Adam said yes. Then he went to Aylesbury.</p>

<p>There were two women on the other side of the carriage,
and they, too, were talking about the Younger Generation.</p>

<p>‘... and it’s a very good position, too, for a boy of that
age, and I’ve told him and his father told him. “You ought
to think yourself lucky,” I’ve said, “to get a good position
like that in these days, particularly when it’s so hard to get a
position at all of any kind <i>or</i> sort.” And there’s Mrs Hemingway
with her son next door who left school eighteen months
ago, and there he is kicking his heels about the house all day
and doing nothing, and taking a correspondence course in
civil engineering. “It’s a very good position,” I told him,
“and, of course, you can’t expect <i>work</i> to be interesting,
though no doubt after a time you get used to it just as your
father’s done, and would probably miss it if you hadn’t it to
do”—you know how Alfred gets on his holidays, doesn’t
know what to do with himself half the time, just looks at the
sea and says, “Well, this <i>is</i> a change,” and then starts
wondering how things are at the office. Well, I told Bob that,
but it’s no good, and all he wants to do is to go into the
motor business; well, as I said to him, the motor business is
all right for them that have influence, but what could Bob
hope to do throwing up a good job, too, and with nothing to
fall back on supposing things did go wrong. But, no, Bob is
all for motors, and, of course, you know it doesn’t really do
having him living at home. He and his father don’t get on.
You can’t have two men in a house together and both wanting
the bath at the same time, and I suppose it’s only
natural that Bob should feel he ought to have his own way a
bit more now that he’s earning his own money. But, then,
what is he to do? He can’t go and live on his own with his
present salary, and I shouldn’t be any too pleased to see him
doing it even if he could afford it—you know what it is with
young people, how easy it is to get into mischief when they’re
left to themselves. And there are a great many of Bob’s
friends now that I don’t really approve of, not to have in and
out of the house, you know the way they do come. He meets
them at the hockey club he goes to Saturdays. And they’re
most of them earning more money than he is, or, at any
rate, they seem to have more to throw about, and it isn’t
good for a boy being about with those that have more money
than him. It only makes him discontented. And I did think
at one time that perhaps Bob was thinking of Betty Rylands,
you know Mrs Rylands’ girl at the Laurels, such nice people,
and they used to play tennis together and people remarked
how much they were about, but now he never seems to pay
any attention to her, it’s all his hockey friends, and I said
one Saturday, “Wouldn’t you like to ask Betty over to tea?”
and he said, “Well, you can if you like,” and she came looking
ever so sweet, and, would you believe it, Bob went out
and didn’t come in at all until supper time. Well, you can’t
expect any girl to put up with that, and now she’s practically
engaged to that young Anderson boy who’s in the wireless
business.’</p>

<p>‘Well, and there’s our Lily now. You know how she would
go in for being a manicurist. Her father didn’t like it, and
for a long time he wouldn’t have it at all. He said it was just
an excuse for holding hands, but, anyway, I said, “If that’s
what the girl wants to do, and if she can make good money
doing it, I think you ought to be able to trust your own
daughter better than to stand in her way.” I’m a modern,
you see. “We’re not living in the Victorian Age,” I told him.
Well, she’s in a very nice job. Bond Street—and they treat
her very fair, and we’ve no complaints on that score, but
now there’s this man she’s met there—he’s old enough to be
her father—well, middle-aged anyway—but very smart,
you know, neat little grey moustache, absolute gentleman,
with a Morris Oxford saloon. And he comes and takes her
out for drives Sundays, and sometimes he fetches her after
work and takes her to the pictures, and always most polite
and well spoken to me and my husband, just as you’d expect,
seeing the sort of man he is, and he sent us all tickets for the
theatre the other night. Very affable, calls me “Ma”, if you
please ... and, anyway, I <i>hope</i> there’s no harm in it ...’</p>

<p>‘Now our Bob ...’</p>

<p>They got out at Berkhamsted, and a man got in who wore
a bright brown suit and spent his time doing sums, which
never seemed to come right, in a little note-book with a
stylographic pen. ‘Has he given all to his daughters?’ thought
Adam.</p>

<p>He drove out to Doubting by a bus which took him as far
as the village of petrol pumps. From there he walked down
the lane to the park gates. To his surprise these stood open,
and as he approached he narrowly missed being run down by
a large and ramshackle car which swept in at a high speed;
he caught a glimpse of two malignant female eyes which
glared contemptuously at him from the small window at the
back. Still more surprising was a large notice which hung on
the central pier of the gates and said: ‘<span class='sc'>No Admittance
Except on Business</span>.’ As Adam walked up the drive two
lorries thundered past him. Then a man appeared with a red
flag.</p>

<p>‘Hi! You can’t go that way. They’re shooting in front. Go
round by the stables, whoever you are.’</p>

<p>Wondering vaguely what kind of sport this could be,
Adam followed the side path indicated. He listened for
sounds of firing, but hearing nothing except distant shouting
and what seemed to be a string band, he concluded that the
Colonel was having a poor day. It seemed odd, anyway, to go
shooting in front of one’s house with a string band, and
automatically Adam began making up a paragraph about it:</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Colonel Blount, father of the lovely Miss Nina Blount referred
to above, rarely comes to London nowadays. He devotes
himself instead to shooting on his estate in Buckinghamshire.
The coverts, which are among the most richly stocked in the
county, lie immediately in front of the house, and many
amusing stories are related of visitors who have inadvertently
found themselves in the line of fire.... Colonel Blount has the
curious eccentricity of being unable to shoot his best except to
the accompaniment of violin and ’cello.</span> (<span class='it'>Mr “Ginger” Littlejohn
has the similar foible that he can only fish to the sound of
the flageolet ...)</span>’</p>

<p>He had not gone very far in his detour before he was
again stopped, this time by a man dressed in a surplice,
episcopal lawn sleeves and scarlet hood and gown; he was
smoking a cigar.</p>

<p>‘Here, what in hell do <i>you</i> want?’ said the Bishop.</p>

<p>‘I came to see Colonel Blount.’</p>

<p>‘Well, you can’t, son. They’re just shooting him now.’</p>

<p>‘Good heavens. What for?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, nothing important. He’s just one of the Wesleyans,
you know—we’re trying to polish off the whole crowd this
afternoon while the weather’s good.’</p>

<p>Adam found himself speechless before this cold-blooded
bigotry.</p>

<p>‘What d’you want to see the old geezer about, anyway?’</p>

<p>‘Well, it hardly seems any good now. I came to tell him
that I’d got a job on the <i>Excess</i>.’</p>

<p>‘The devil you have. Why didn’t you say so before?
Always pleased to see gentlemen of the Press. Have a
weed?’ A large cigar-case appeared from the recesses of the
episcopal bosom. ‘I’m Bishop Philpotts, you know,’ he said,
slipping a voluminously clothed arm through Adam’s. ‘I
dare say you’d like to come round to the front and see the
fun. I should think they’d be just singing their last hymn
now. It’s been uphill work,’ he confided as they walked
round the side of the house, ‘and there’s been some damned
bad management. Why, yesterday, they kept Miss La
Touche waiting the whole afternoon, and then the light was
so bad when they did shoot her that they made a complete
mess of her—we had the machine out and ran over all the
bits carefully last night after dinner—you never saw such
rotten little scraps—quite unrecognizable half of them. We
didn’t dare show them to her husband—he’d be sick to
death about it—so we just cut out a few shots to keep and
threw away the rest. I say, you’re not feeling queer, are you?
You look all green suddenly. Find the weed a bit strong?’</p>

<p>‘Was—was she a Wesleyan too?’</p>

<p>‘My dear boy, she’s playing lead ... she’s Selina. Countess
of Huntingdon.... There, now you can see them at
work.’</p>

<p>They had rounded the wing and were now in full view
of the front of the house, where all was activity and animation.
A dozen or so men and women in eighteenth-century
costume were standing in a circle singing strongly, while in
their centre stood a small man in a long clerical coat and a
full white wig, conducting them. A string band was playing
not far off and round the singers clustered numerous men in
shirt sleeves bearing megaphones, cinematograph cameras,
microphones, sheaves of paper and arc lamps. Not far away,
waiting their turn to be useful, stood a coach and four, a
detachment of soldiers and some scene shifters with the
transept of Exeter Cathedral in sections of canvas and matchboarding.</p>

<p>‘The Colonel’s somewhere in that little crowd singing the
hymn,’ said the Bishop. ‘He was crazy to be allowed to come
on as a super, and as he’s letting us the house dirt cheap
Isaacs said he might. I don’t believe he’s ever been so happy
in his life.’</p>

<p>As they approached the hymn stopped.</p>

<p>‘All right,’ said one of the men with megaphones. ‘You
can beat it. We’ll shoot the duel now. I shall want two
supers to carry the body. The rest of you are through for the
afternoon.’</p>

<p>A man in a leather apron, worsted stockings and flaxen
wig emerged from the retreating worshippers.</p>

<p>‘Oh, please, Mr Isaacs,’ he said, ‘please may <i>I</i> carry the
body?’</p>

<p>‘All right, Colonel, if you want to. Run in and tell them
in the wardrobe to give you a smock and a pitchfork.’</p>

<p>‘Thank you so much,’ said Colonel Blount, trotting off
towards his house. Then he stopped. ‘I suppose,’ he said, ‘I
suppose it wouldn’t be better for me to carry a sword?’</p>

<p>‘No, pitchfork, and hurry up about it or I shan’t let you
carry the body at all; some one go and find Miss La Touche.’</p>

<p>The young lady whom Adam had seen in the motor car
came down the steps of the house in a feathered hat, riding
habit and braided cape. She carried a hunting crop in her
hand. Her face was painted very yellow.</p>

<p>‘Do I or do I not have a horse in this scene, Mr Isaacs? I’ve
been round to Bertie and he says all the horses are needed
for the coach.’</p>

<p>‘I’m sorry, Effie, you do <i>not</i> and it’s no good taking on.
We only got four horses and you know that, and you saw
what it was like when we tried to move the coach with two. So
you’ve just got to face it. You comes across the fields on foot.’</p>

<p>‘Dirty Yid,’ said Effie La Touche.</p>

<p>‘The trouble about this film,’ said the Bishop, ‘is that we
haven’t enough capital. It’s heart-breaking. Here we have a
first-rate company, first-rate producer, first-rate scene, first-rate
story and the whole thing being hung up for want of a
few hundred pounds. How can he expect to get the best out
of Miss La Touche if they won’t give her a horse? No girl
will stand for that sort of treatment. If I were Isaacs I’d
scrap the whole coach sooner. It’s no sense getting a star and
not treating her right. Isaacs is putting every one’s back up
the way he goes on. Wanted to do the whole of my cathedral
scene with twenty-five supers. But you’re here to give us a
write up, aren’t you? I’ll call Isaacs across and let him give
you the dope.... <i>Isaacs!</i>’</p>

<p>‘Yuh?’</p>

<p>‘<i>Daily Excess</i> here.’</p>

<p>‘Where?’</p>

<p>‘Here.’</p>

<p>‘I’ll be right over.’ He put on his coat, buttoned it tightly
at the waist and strode across the lawn, extending a hand of
welcome. Adam shook it and felt what seemed to be a handful
of rings under his fingers. ‘Pleased to meet you, Mister.
Now just you ask me anything you want about this film
because I’m just here to answer. Have you got my name?
Have a card. That’s the name of the company in the corner.
Not the one that’s scratched out. The one written above.
<i>The Wonderfilm Company of Great Britain</i>. Now this film,’
he said, in what seemed a well-practised little speech, ‘of
which you have just witnessed a mere fragment marks a
stepping stone in the development of the British Film
Industry. It is the most important All-Talkie super-religious
film to be produced solely in this country by British artists
and management and by British capital. It has been directed
throughout regardless of difficulty and expense, and supervised
by a staff of expert historians and theologians. Nothing
has been omitted that would contribute to the meticulous
accuracy of every detail. The life of that great social and
religious reformer John Wesley is for the first time portrayed
to a British public in all its humanity and tragedy.... Look
here, I’ve got all this written out. I’ll have them give you a
copy before you go. Come and see the duel....</p>

<p>‘That’s Wesley and Whitefield just going to start. Of
course, it’s not them really. Two fencing instructors we got
over from the gym. at Aylesbury. That’s what I mean when
I say we spare no expense to get the details accurate. Ten
bob each we’re paying them for the afternoon.’</p>

<p>‘But did Wesley and Whitefield fight a duel?’</p>

<p>‘Well, it’s not actually recorded, but it’s known that they
quarrelled and there was only one way of settling quarrels in
those days. They’re both in love with Selina, Countess of
Huntingdon, you see. She comes to stop them, but arrives
too late. Whitefield has escaped in the coach and Wesley is
lying wounded. That’s a scene that’ll go over big. Then she
takes him back to her home and nurses him back to health. I
tell you, this is going to make film history. D’you know
what the Wesleyan population of the British Isles is? Well
nor do I, but I’ve been told and <i>you’ld be surprised</i>. Well
every one of those is going to come and see this film and
there’s going to be discussions about it in all the chapels.
We’re recording extracts from Wesley’s sermons and we’re
singing all his own hymns. I’m glad your paper’s interested.
You can tell them from me that we’re on a big thing....
There’s one thing though,’ said Mr Isaacs, suddenly becoming
confidential, ‘which I shouldn’t tell many people. But I
think you’ll understand because you’ve seen some of our
work here and the sort of scale it’s on, and you can imagine
that expenses are pretty heavy. Why, I’m paying Miss La
Touche alone over ten pounds a week. And the truth is—I
don’t mind telling you—we’re beginning to feel the wind a
bit. It’s going to be a big success <i>when</i> and <i>if</i> it’s finished.
Now, suppose there was some one—yourself, for instance, or
one of your friends—who had a little bit of loose capital he
wanted to invest—a thousand pounds, say—well, I wouldn’t
mind selling him a half-share. It’s not a gamble, mind—it’s
a certain winner. If I cared to go into the open market with
it, it would be snapped up before you could say knife. But I
don’t want to do that and I’ll tell you why. This is a British
company and I don’t want to let any of those foreign speculators
in on it, and once you let the shares get into the open
market you can’t tell who’s buying them, see. Now why
leave money idle bringing in four and a half or five per cent.
when you might be doubling it in six months?’</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid it’s no use coming to me for capital,’ said
Adam. ‘Do you think I could possibly see Colonel Blount?’</p>

<p>‘One of the things I hate in life,’ said Mr Isaacs, ‘is seeing
any one lose an opportunity. Now listen, I’ll make you a fair
offer. I can see you’re interested in this film. Now I’ll sell
you the whole thing—film we’ve made up to date, artists’
contracts, copyright of scenario, everything for five hundred
quid. Then all you have to do is to finish it off and your
fortune’s made and I shall be cursing for not having held on
longer. How about it?’</p>

<p>‘It’s very good of you, but really I don’t think I can
afford it at the moment.’</p>

<p>‘Just as you like,’ said Mr Isaacs airily. ‘There’s many
who <i>can</i> who’d jump at the offer, only I thought I’d let you
in on it first because I could see you were a smart kid....
Tell you what I’ll do. I’ll let you have it for four hundred.
Can’t say fairer than that, can I? And wouldn’t do it for any
one but you.’</p>

<p>‘I’m terribly sorry, Mr Isaacs, but I didn’t come to buy
your film. I came to see Colonel Blount.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I shouldn’t have thought you were the sort of chap
to let an opportunity like that slip through your fingers.
Now I’ll give you one more chance and after that mind, the
offer is closed. I’ll sell you it for three-fifty. Take it or leave
it. That’s my last word. Of course, you’re not in any way
obliged to buy,’ said Mr Isaacs rather haughtily, ‘but I
assure you that you’ll regret it from the bottom of your heart
if you don’t.’</p>

<p>‘I’m sorry,’ said Adam, ‘I think it’s a wonderfully generous
offer, but the truth is I simply don’t want to buy a film
at all.’</p>

<p>‘In that case,’ said Mr Isaacs, ‘I shall return to my
business.’</p>

<p>Not till sunset did the Wonderfilm Company of Great
Britain rest. Adam watched them from the lawn. He saw the
two fencing instructors in long black coats and white neck
bands lunging and parrying manfully until one of them fell;
then the cameras stopped and his place was taken by the
leading actor (who had been obliged through the exigencies
of the wardrobe to lend his own coat). Whitefield took the
place (and the wig) of the victor and fled to the coach. Effie
La Touche appeared from the shrubbery still defiantly
carrying her hunting crop. Close-ups followed of Effie and
Wesley and Effie and Wesley together. Then Colonel Blount
and another super appeared as yokels and carried the
wounded preacher back to the house. All this took a long
time as the action was frequently held up by minor mishaps
and once when the whole scene had been triumphantly
enacted the chief cameraman found that he had forgotten to
put in a new roll of film (‘Can’t think how I come to make a
mistake like that, Mr Isaacs’). Finally the horses were taken
out of the coach and mounted by grenadiers and a few
shots taken of them plunging despairingly up the main
drive.</p>

<p>‘Part of Butcher Cumberland’s army,’ explained Mr
Isaacs. ‘It’s always good to work in a little atmosphere like
that. Gives more educational value. Besides we hire the
horses by the day so we might as well get all we can out of
them while they’re here. If we don’t use ’em in Wesley we
can fit ’em in somewhere else. A hundred foot or so of galloping
horses is always useful.’</p>

<p>When everything was over Adam managed to see Colonel
Blount, but it was not a satisfactory interview.</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid I’ve really got very little time to spare,’ he
said. ‘To tell you the truth, I’m at work on a scenario of my
own. They tell me you come from the <i>Excess</i> and want to
write about the film. It’s a glorious film, isn’t it? Of course,
you know, I have very little to do with it really. I have let
them the house and have acted one or two small parts in the
crowd. I don’t have to pay for them though.’</p>

<p>‘No, I should think not.’</p>

<p>‘My dear boy, all the others have to. I knocked a little off
the rent of the house, but I don’t actually <i>pay</i>. In fact, you
might almost say I was a professional already. You see, Mr
Isaacs is the principal of the National Academy of Cinematographic
Art. He’s got a little office in Edgware Road, just one
room, you know, to interview candidates in. Well, if he
thinks that they’re promising enough—he doesn’t take any
one, mind, only a chosen few—he takes them on as pupils.
As Mr Isaacs says, the best kind of training is practical work,
so he produces a film straight away and pays the professionals
out of the pupils’ fees. It’s really a very simple and
sensible plan. All the characters in “John Wesley” are
pupils, except Wesley himself and Whitefield and the Bishop
and, of course, Miss La Touche—she’s the wife of the man
who looks after the Edgware Road office when Mr Isaacs is
away. Even the cameramen are only learning. It makes
everything so exciting, you know. This is the third film Mr
Isaacs has produced. The first went wrong, through Mr
Isaacs trusting one of the pupils to develop it. Of course, he
made him pay damages—that’s in the contract they all have
to sign—but the film was ruined, and Mr Isaacs said it was
disheartening—he nearly gave up the cinema altogether.
But then a lot more pupils came along, so they produced
another, which was <i>very</i> good indeed. Quite a revolution in
Film Art, Mr Isaacs said, but that was boycotted through professional
jealousy. None of the theatres would show it. But
that’s been made all right now. Mr Isaacs has got in with
the ring, he says, and this is going to establish Wonderfilms
as the leading company in the country. What’s more, he’s
offered me a half share in it for five thousand pounds. It’s
wonderfully generous, when he might keep it all to himself,
but he says that he must have some one who understands
<i>acting</i> from the practical side of the board of directors. Funnily
enough, my bank manager is very much against my
going in for it. In fact, he’s putting every obstacle in my
way.... But I dare say Mr Isaacs would sooner you didn’t
put any of this into your paper.’</p>

<p>‘What I really came about was your daughter, Nina.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, she’s not taking any part in the film at all. To tell you
the truth, I very much doubt whether she has any real
talent. It’s funny how these things often skip a generation.
My father, now, was a very bad actor indeed—though he
always used to take a leading part when we had theatricals at
Christmas. Upon my soul, he used to make himself look
quite ridiculous sometimes. I remember once he did a skit of
Henry Irving in <i>The Bells</i>....’</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid you’ve forgotten me, sir, but I came here last
month to see you about Nina. Well, she wanted me to tell
you that I’m Mr Chatterbox now....’</p>

<p>‘Chatterbox ... no, my boy, I’m afraid I don’t remember
you. My memory’s not what it was.... There’s a Canon
Chatterbox at Worcester I used to know ... he was up at
New College with me ... unusual name.’</p>

<p>‘Mr Chatterbox on the <i>Daily Excess</i>.’</p>

<p>‘No, no, my dear boy, I assure you not. He was ordained
just after I went down and was chaplain somewhere abroad—Bermuda,
I think. Then he came home and went
to Worcester. He was never on the <i>Daily Excess</i> in his
life.’</p>

<p>‘No, no, sir, <i>I’m</i> on the <i>Daily Excess</i>.’</p>

<p>‘Well, you ought to know your own staff, certainly. He
<i>may</i> have left Worcester and taken to journalism. A great
many parsons do nowadays. I know. But I must say that
he’s the last fellow I should have expected it of. Awful
stupid fellow. Besides, he must be at least seventy....
Well, well ... who would have thought it. Good-bye, my
boy, I’ve enjoyed our talk.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, sir,’ cried Adam, as Colonel Blount began to walk
away. ‘You don’t understand—I want to marry Nina.’</p>

<p>‘Well, it’s no good coming here,’ said the Colonel crossly.
‘I told you, she’s somewhere in London. She’s got nothing
to do with the film at all. You’ll have to go and ask her about
it. Anyway, I happen to know she’s engaged already. There
was a young ass of a chap down here about it the other day
... the Rector said he was off his head. Laughed the whole
time—bad sign that—still, Nina wants to marry him for
some reason. So I’m afraid you’re too late, my boy. I’m
sorry ... and, anyway, the Rector’s behaved very badly
about this film. Wouldn’t lend his car. I suppose it’s because
of the Wesleyanism. Narrow-minded, that.... Well, good-bye.
So nice of you to come. Remember me to Canon
Chatterbox. I must look him up next time I come to London
and pull his leg about it.... Writing for the papers, indeed,
at his age.’</p>

<p>And Colonel Blount retired victorious.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Late that evening Adam and Nina sat in the gallery of
the Café de la Paix eating oysters.</p>

<p>‘Well we won’t bother any more about papa,’ she said.
‘We’ll just get married at once.’</p>

<p>‘We shall be terribly poor.’</p>

<p>‘Well, we shan’t be any poorer than we are now.... I
think it will be divine.... Besides, we’ll be terribly economical.
Miles says he’s discovered a place near Tottenham
Court Road where you can get oysters for three and six a
dozen.’</p>

<p>‘Wouldn’t they be rather ill-making?’</p>

<p>‘Well, Miles said the only odd thing about them is that
they all taste a little different.... I had lunch with Miles
to-day. He rang up to find where you were. He wanted to
sell Edward Throbbing’s engagement to the <i>Excess</i>. But Van
offered him five guineas for it, so he gave it to them.’</p>

<p>‘I’m sorry we missed that. The editor will be furious. By
the way, how did the gossip page go? Did you manage to fill
it all right?’</p>

<p>‘My dear, I think I did rather well. You see Van and
Miles didn’t know I was in the trade, so they talked about
Edward’s engagement a whole lot, so I went and put it in
... was that very caddish? ... and I wrote a lot about Edward
and the girl he’s to marry. I used to know her when I
came out, and that took up half the page. So I just put in a
few imaginary ones like you do, so then it was finished.’</p>

<p>‘What did you say in the imaginary ones?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, I don’t know. I said I saw Count Cincinnati going
into Espinosa’s in a green bowler ... things like that.’</p>

<p>‘<i>You said that?</i>’</p>

<p>‘Yes, wasn’t it a good thing to say.... Angel, is anything
wrong?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, God.’</p>

<p>Adam dashed to the telephone.</p>

<p>‘Central ten thousand ... put me through to the night
editor.... Look here, I’ve got to make a correction in the
Chatterbox page ... it’s urgent.’</p>

<p>‘Sorry, Symes. Last edition went to bed half an hour ago.
Got everything made up early to-night.’</p>

<p>So Adam went back to finish his oysters.</p>

<p>‘Bad tabulation there,’ said Lord Monomark next morning,
when he saw the paragraph.</p>

<hr/>

<p>So Miles Malpractice became Mr Chatterbox.</p>

<hr/>

<p>‘Now we can’t be married,’ said Nina.</p>

<h2>Chapter Ten</h2>

<p>Adam and Miss Runcible and Miles and Archie Schwert
went up to the motor races in Archie Schwert’s car. It was a
long and cold drive. Miss Runcible wore trousers and Miles
touched up his eyelashes in the dining-room of the hotel
where they stopped for luncheon. So they were asked to
leave. At the next hotel they made Miss Runcible stay
outside, and brought her cold lamb and pickles in the car.
Archie thought it would be nice to have champagne, and
worried the wine waiter about dates (a subject which had
always been repugnant to him). They spent a long time over
luncheon because it was warm there, and they drank Kümmel
over the fire until Miss Runcible came in very angrily
to fetch them out.</p>

<p>Then Archie said he was too sleepy to drive any more, so
Adam changed places with him and lost the way, and they
travelled miles in the wrong direction down a limitless bye-pass
road.</p>

<p>And then it began to be dark and the rain got worse. They
stopped for dinner at another hotel, where every one giggled
at Miss Runcible’s trousers in a dining-room hung with
copper warming pans.</p>

<p>Presently they came to the town where the race was to be
run. They drove to the hotel where the dirt-track racer was
staying. It was built in the Gothic style of 1860, large, dark
and called the Imperial.</p>

<p>They had wired him to book them rooms, but ‘Bless you,’
said the woman at the counter marked ‘Reception’, ‘all
our rooms have been booked for the last six months. I couldn’t
fit you in anywhere, not if you was the Speed Kings themselves,
I couldn’t. I don’t suppose you’ll find anything in the
town to-night. You might try at the Station Hotel. That’s
your only chance.’</p>

<p>At the Station Hotel they made Miss Runcible wait outside,
but with no better success.</p>

<p>‘I might put one of you on the sofa in the bar parlour,
there’s only a married couple in there at present and two
little boys, or if you didn’t mind sitting up all night, there’s
always the palm lounge.’ As for a bed, that was out of the
question. They might try at the ‘Royal George’, but she
doubted very much whether they’d <i>like</i> that even if there
was room, which she was pretty sure there was not.</p>

<p>Then Miss Runcible thought that she remembered that
there were some friends of her father who lived quite near,
so she found out their telephone number and rang them up,
but they said no, they were sorry, but they had a completely
full house and practically no servants, and that as far
as they knew they had never heard of Lord Chasm. So that
was no good.</p>

<p>Then they went to several more hotels, sinking through
the various graduations of Old Established Family and
Commercial, plain Commercial, High Class Board Residence
pension terms, Working Girls’ Hostel, plain Pub. and Clean
Beds: Gentlemen Only. All were full. At last, by the edge of
a canal, they came to the ‘Royal George’. The landlady
stood at the door and rounded off an argument with an
elderly little man in a bowler hat.</p>

<p>‘First ’e takes off ’is boots in the saloon bar,’ she said,
enlisting the sympathy of her new audience, ‘which is not
the action of a gentleman.’</p>

<p>‘They was wet,’ said the little man, ‘wet as ’ell.’</p>

<p>‘Well, and who wants your wet boots on the counter, I
should like to know. Then, if you please, he calls me a
conspiring woman because I tells him to stop and put them
on before he goes ’ome.’</p>

<p>‘Want to go ’ome,’ said the little man. ‘ ’Ome to my wife
and kids. <i>Trying to keep a man from ’is wife.</i>’</p>

<p>‘No one wants to keep you from your wife, you old silly. All
I says is for Gawd’s sake put on your boots before you go ’ome.
What’ll your wife think of you coming ’ome without boots.’</p>

<p>‘She won’t mind ’ow I come ’ome. Why, bless you, I
ain’t been ’ome at all for five years. It’s ’ard to be separated
from a wife and kids by a conspiring woman trying to make
yer put on yer boots.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, she’s quite right, you know,’ said Miss Runcible.
‘You’d far better put on your boots.’</p>

<p>‘There, ’ear what the lady says. Lady says you’ve to put
on your boots.’</p>

<p>The little man took his boots from the landlady, looked at
Miss Runcible with a searching glance, and threw them into
the canal. ‘<i>Lady</i>,’ he said with feeling. ‘<i>Trousers</i>,’ and
then he paddled off in his socks into the darkness.</p>

<p>‘There ain’t no ’arm in ’im really,’ said the landlady,
‘only he do get a bit wild when he’s ’ad the drink. Wasting
good boots like that.... I expect he’ll spend the night in
the lock-up.’</p>

<p>‘Won’t he get back to his wife, poor sweet?’</p>

<p>‘Lor’ bless you, no. She lives in London.’</p>

<p>At this stage Archie Schwert, whose humanitarian interests
were narrower than Miss Runcible’s, lost interest in the
discussion.</p>

<p>‘The thing we want to know is, can you let us have beds
for the night?’</p>

<p>The landlady looked at him suspiciously.</p>

<p>‘Bed or beds?’</p>

<p>‘Beds.’</p>

<p>‘Might do.’ She looked from the car to Miss Runcible’s
trousers and back to the car again, weighing them against
each other. ‘Cost you a quid each,’ she said at last.</p>

<p>‘Can you find room for us all?’</p>

<p>‘Well,’ she said, ‘which of you’s with the young lady?’</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid I’m all alone,’ said Miss Runcible. ‘Isn’t it too
shaming?’</p>

<p>‘Never you mind, dearie, luck’ll turn one day. Well, now,
how can we all fit in? There’s one room empty. I can sleep
with our Sarah, and that leaves a bed for the gentlemen—then
if the young lady wouldn’t mind coming in with me
and Sarah ...’</p>

<p>‘If you don’t think it rude, I think I’d sooner have the
empty bed,’ said Miss Runcible, rather faintly. ‘You see,’
she added, with tact, ‘I snore so terribly.’</p>

<p>‘Bless you, so does our Sarah. <i>We</i> don’t mind ... still, if
you’d <i>rather</i> ...’</p>

<p>‘Really, I think I should,’ said Miss Runcible.</p>

<p>‘Well then, I could put Mr Titchcock on the floor,
couldn’t I?’</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said Miles, ‘just you put Mr Titchcock on the floor.’</p>

<p>‘And if the other gentleman don’t mind going on the
landing.... Well, we’ll manage somehow, see if we don’t.’</p>

<p>So they all drank some gin together in the back parlour
and they woke Mr Titchcock up and made him help with the
luggage and they gave him some gin, too, and he said it was
all the same to him whether he slept on the floor or in bed,
and he was very pleased to be of any service to any one and
didn’t mind if he did have another drop just as a night-cap,
as they might say; and at last they all went to bed, very
tired, but fairly contented, and oh, how they were bitten by
bugs all that night.</p>

<p>Adam had secured one of the bedrooms. He awoke early
to find rain beating on the window. He looked out and saw a
grey sky, some kind of factory and the canal from whose
shallow waters rose little islands of scrap-iron and bottles; a
derelict perambulator lay partially submerged under the
opposite bank. In his room stood a chest of drawers full of
horrible fragments of stuff, a washhand stand with a highly
coloured basin, an empty jug and an old toothbrush. There
was also a rotund female bust covered in shiny red material,
and chopped off short, as in primitive martyrdoms, at neck,
waist and elbows; a thing known as a dressmaker’s ‘dummy’
(there had been one of these in Adam’s home which they
used to call ‘Jemima’—one day he stabbed ‘Jemima’ with a
chisel and scattered stuffing over the nursery floor and was
punished. A more enlightened age would have seen a complex
in this action and worried accordingly. Anyway he was
made to sweep up all the stuffing himself).</p>

<p>Adam was very thirsty, but there was a light green moss
in the bottom of the water bottle that repelled him. He got
into bed again and found some one’s handkerchief (presumably
Mr Titchcock’s) under the pillow.</p>

<p>He woke again a little later to find Miss Runcible dressed
in pyjamas and a fur coat sitting on his bed.</p>

<p>‘Darling,’ she said, ‘there’s no looking-glass in my room
and no bath anywhere, and I trod on some one cold and soft
asleep in the passage, and I’ve been awake all night killing
bugs with drops of face lotion, and everything smells, and I
feel so low I could die.’</p>

<p>‘For heaven’s sake let’s go away,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>So they woke Miles and Archie Schwert, and ten minutes
later they all stole out of the ‘Royal George’ carrying their
suitcases.</p>

<p>‘I wonder, do you think we ought to leave some money?’
asked Adam, but the others all said no.</p>

<p>‘Well, perhaps we ought to pay for the gin,’ said Miss
Runcible.</p>

<p>So they left five shillings on the bar and drove away to the
‘Imperial’.</p>

<p>It was still very early, but every one seemed to be awake,
running in and out of the lifts carrying crash-helmets and
overalls. Miles’ friend, they were told, had been out before
dawn, presumably at his garage. Adam met some reporters
whom he used to see about the <i>Excess</i> office. They told him
that it was any one’s race, and that the place to see the fun
was Headlong Corner, where there had been three deaths
the year before, and it was worse this year, because they’d
been putting down wet tar. It was nothing more or less than
a death trap, the reporters said. Then they went away to
interview some more drivers. All teams were confident of
victory, they said.</p>

<p>Meanwhile Miss Runcible discovered an empty bathroom
and came down half-an-hour later all painted up and wearing
a skirt and feeling quite herself again and ready for anything.
So they went in to breakfast.</p>

<p>The dining-room was very full indeed. There were Speed
Kings of all nationalities, unimposing men mostly with
small moustaches and apprehensive eyes; they were reading
the forecasts in the morning papers and eating what might
(and in some cases did) prove to be their last meal on earth.
There were a great number of journalists making the best of
an ‘out-of-town’ job; there were a troop of nondescript ‘fans’,
knowledgeable young men with bright jumpers tucked inside
their belted trousers, old public-school ties, check
tweeds, loose mouths and scarcely discernible Cockney
accents; there were R.A.C. officials and A.A. officials, and
the representatives of oil firms and tyre manufacturers.
There was one disconsolate family who had come to the
town for the christening of a niece. (No one had warned them
that there was a motor race on; their hotel bill <i>was</i> a shock.)</p>

<p>‘Very better-making,’ said Miss Runcible with approval
as she ate her haddock.</p>

<p>Scraps of highly technical conversation rose on all sides of
them.</p>

<p>‘... Changed the whole engine over after they’d been
scrutineered. Any one else would have been disqualified ...’</p>

<p>‘... just cruising round at fifty ...’</p>

<p>‘... stung by a bee just as he was taking the corner,
missed the tree by inches and landed up in the Town Hall.
There was a Riley coming up behind, spun round twice,
climbed the bank, turned right over and caught fire ...’</p>

<p>‘... local overheating at the valve-heads. It’s no sense
putting a supercharger in that engine at all ...’</p>

<p>‘Headlong Corner’s jam. All you want to do is to brake
right down to forty or forty-five at the white cottage, then
rev. up opposite the pub. and get straight away in second
on the near side of the road. A child could do it. It’s the
double bend just after the railway bridge where you’ll get
the funny stuff.’</p>

<p>‘... kept flagging him down from the pits. I tell you that
bunch don’t want him to win.’</p>

<p>‘... She wouldn’t tell me her name, but she said she’d
meet me at the same place to-night and gave me a sprig of
white heather for the car. I lost it, like a fool. She said she’d
look out for it too...’</p>

<p>‘... Only offers a twenty pound bonus this year...’</p>

<p>‘... lapped at seventy-five...’</p>

<p>‘... Burst his gasket and blew out his cylinder heads...’</p>

<p>‘... Broke both arms and cracked his skull in two places...’</p>

<p>‘... Tailwag ...’</p>

<p>‘... Speed-wobble ...’</p>

<p>‘... Merc ...’</p>

<p>‘... Mag ...’</p>

<p>‘... crash ...’</p>

<p>When they finished breakfast Miss Runcible and Adam
and Archie Schwert and Miles went to the garage to look for
their Speed King. They found him hard at work listening
to his engine. A corner of the garage had been roped off
and the floor strewn with sand as though for a boxing
match.</p>

<p>Outside this ring clustered a group of predatory little boys
with autograph albums and leaking fountain-pens, and inside,
surrounded by attendants, stood the essential parts of a
motor car. The engine was running and the whole machine
shook with fruitless exertion. Clouds of dark smoke came
from it, and a shattering roar which reverberated from
concrete floor and corrugated iron roof into every corner of
the building so that speech and thought became insupportable
and all the senses were numbed. At frequent intervals
this high and heart-breaking note was varied by sharp detonations,
and it was these apparently which were causing
anxiety, for at each report Miles’ friend, who clearly could
not have been unduly sensitive to noise, gave a little wince
and looked significantly at his head mechanic.</p>

<p>Apart from the obvious imperfection of its sound, the car
gave the impression to an uninstructed observer of being
singularly unfinished. In fact, it was obviously still under
construction. It had only three wheels; the fourth being in
the hands of a young man in overalls, who, in the intervals
of tossing back from his eyes a curtain of yellow hair, was
beating it with a hammer. It also had no seats, and another
mechanic was screwing down slabs of lead ballast in the
place where one would have expected to find them. It had
no bonnet; that was in the hands of a sign painter, who was
drawing a black number 13 in a white circle. There was a
similar number on the back, and a mechanic was engaged in
fixing another number board over one of the headlights.
There was a mechanic, too, making a windscreen of wire
gauze, and a mechanic lying flat doing something to the
back axle with a tin of grate polish and a rag. Two more
mechanics were helping Miles’ friend to listen to the bangs.
‘As if we couldn’t have heard them from Berkeley Square,’
said Miss Runcible.</p>

<p>The truth is that motor cars offer a very happy illustration
of the metaphysical distinction between ‘being’ and ‘becoming’.
Some cars, mere vehicles with no purpose above bare
locomotion, mechanical drudges such as Lady Metroland’s
Hispano Suiza, or Mrs Mouse’s Rolls Royce, or Lady Circumference’s
1912 Daimler, or the ‘general reader’s’ Austin
Seven, these have definite ‘being’ just as much as their
occupants. They are bought all screwed up and numbered
and painted, and there they stay through various declensions
of ownership, brightened now and then with a lick of
paint or temporarily rejuvenated by the addition of some
minor organ, but still maintaining their essential identity to
the scrap heap.</p>

<p>Not so the <i>real</i> cars, that become masters of men; those
vital creations of metal who exist solely for their own propulsion
through space, for whom their drivers, clinging
precariously at the steering wheel, are as important as his
stenographer to a stockbroker. These are in perpetual flux; a
vortex of combining and disintegrating units; like the confluence
of traffic at some spot where many roads meet,
streams of mechanism come together, mingle and separate
again.</p>

<p>Miles’ friend, even had it been possible in the uproar,
seemed indisposed to talk. He waved abstractedly and went
on with his listening. Presently he came across and shouted:</p>

<p>‘Sorry I can’t spare a moment, I’ll see you in the pits. I’ve
got you some brassards.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, what <i>can</i> that be?’</p>

<p>He handed them each a strip of white linen, terminating
in tape.</p>

<p>‘For your arms,’ he shouted. ‘You can’t get into the pits
without them.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, what bliss! Fancy their having pits.’</p>

<p>Then they tied on their brassards. Miss Runcible’s said
‘<span class='sc'>Spare Driver</span>’; Adam’s, ‘<span class='sc'>Depot Staff</span>’; Miles’
‘<span class='sc'>Spare Mechanic</span>’ and Archie’s, ‘<span class='sc'>Owner’s Representative</span>.’</p>

<p>Up till now the little boys round the rope had been
sceptical of the importance of Miss Runcible and her friends,
but as soon as they saw these badges of rank they pressed
forward with their autograph books. Archie signed them all
with the utmost complaisance, and even drew a slightly unsuitable
picture in one of them. Then they drove away in
Archie’s car.</p>

<p>The race was not due to start until noon, but any indecision
which they may have felt about the employment of
the next few hours was settled for them by the local police,
who were engaged in directing all traffic, irrespective of its
particular inclinations, on the road to the course. No pains
had been spared about this point of organization; several
days before, the Chief Constable had issued a little route
map which was to be memorized by all constables on point
duty, and so well had they learned their lesson that from
early that morning until late in the afternoon no vehicle
approaching the town from any direction escaped being
drawn into that broad circuit marked by the arrows and
dotted line A-B which led to the temporary car park behind
the Grand Stand. (Many doctors, thus diverted, spent an
enjoyable day without apparent prejudice to their patients.)</p>

<p>The advance of the spectators had already assumed the
form of a slow and unbroken stream. Some came on foot
from the railway station, carrying sandwiches and camp
stools; some on tandem bicycles; some in ‘runabouts’ or
motor cycle side-car combinations, but most were in modestly
priced motor cars. Their clothes and demeanour proclaimed
them as belonging to the middle rank; a few brought
portable wireless sets with them and other evidence of gaiety,
but the general air of the procession was one of sobriety and
purpose. This was no Derby day holiday-making; they had
not snatched a day from the office to squander it among
gipsies and roundabouts and thimble-and-pea men. They
were there for the race. As they crawled along in bottom
gear in a fog of exhaust gas, they discussed the technicalities
of motor car design and the possibilities of bloodshed, and
studied their maps of the course to pick out the most dangerous
corners.</p>

<p>The detour planned by the Chief Constable was a long
one, lined with bungalows and converted railway carriages.
Banners floated over it between the telegraph posts, mostly
advertising the <i>Morning Despatch</i>, which was organizing
the race and paying for the victor’s trophy—a silver gilt
figure of odious design, symbolizing Fame embracing Speed.
(This at the moment was under careful guard in the stewards’
room, for the year before it had been stolen on the eve
of the race by the official time-keeper, who pawned it for a
ridiculously small sum in Manchester, and was subsequently
deprived of his position and sent to gaol.) Other
advertisements proclaimed the superiorities of various sorts of
petrol and sparking plugs, while some said ‘£100 <span class='sc'>for Loss
of Limb. Insure To-day</span>.’ There was also an elderly
man walking among the motor cars with a blue and white
banner inscribed, ‘<span class='sc'>Without Shedding of Blood is no
Remission of Sin</span>’, while a smartly dressed young man
was doing a brisk trade in bogus tickets for the Grand Stand.</p>

<p>Adam sat in the back of the car with Miles, who was
clearly put out about his friend’s lack of cordiality. ‘What
I can’t make out,’ he said, ‘is why we came to this beastly
place at all. I suppose I ought to be thinking of something
to write for the <i>Excess</i>. I <i>know</i> this is just going to be the
most dreary day we’ve ever spent.’</p>

<p>Adam felt inclined to agree. Suddenly he became aware
that some one was trying to attract his attention.</p>

<p>‘There’s an awful man shouting “Hi” at you,’ said
Miles. ‘My dear, <i>your friends</i>.’</p>

<p>Adam turned and saw not three yards away, separated
from him by a young woman riding a push-bicycle in khaki
shorts, her companion, who bore a knapsack on his shoulders,
and a small boy selling programmes, the long-sought figure
of the drunk Major. He looked sober enough this morning,
dressed in a bowler hat and Burberry, and he was waving
frantically to Adam from the dicky of a coupé car.</p>

<p>‘Hi!’ cried the drunk Major. ‘Hi! I’ve been looking for you
everywhere.’</p>

<p>‘I’ve been looking for you,’ shouted Adam. ‘I want some
money.’</p>

<p>‘Can’t hear—what do you want?’</p>

<p>‘Money.’</p>

<p>‘It’s no good—these infernal things make too much
noise. What’s your name? Lottie had forgotten.’</p>

<p>‘Adam Symes.’</p>

<p>‘Can’t hear.’</p>

<p>The line of traffic, creeping forward yard by yard, had at
last reached the point B on the Chief Constable’s map,
where the dotted lines diverged. A policeman stood at the
crossing directing the cars right and left, some to the parking
place behind the Grand Stand, others to the mound above
the pits. Archie turned on to the left. The drunk Major’s
car accelerated and swept away to the right.</p>

<p>‘<i>I must know your name</i>,’ he cried. All the drivers seemed
to choose this moment to sound their horns; the woman
cyclist at Adam’s elbow rang her bell; the male cyclist tooted
a little horn like a Paris taxi, and the programme boy
yelled in his ear, ‘Official programme—map of the course—all
the drivers.’</p>

<p>‘Adam Symes,’ he shouted desperately, but the Major
threw up his hands in despair and he disappeared in the
crowd.</p>

<p>‘<i>The way you pick people up ...</i>’ said Miles, startled into
admiration.</p>

<p>‘The pits’ turned out to be a line of booths, built of wood
and corrugated iron immediately opposite the Grand Stand.
Many of the cars had already arrived and stood at their ‘pits’,
surrounded by a knot of mechanics and spectators; they
seemed to be already under repair. Busy officials hurried up
and down, making entries in their lists. Over their heads a
vast loud speaker was relaying the music of a military band.</p>

<p>The Grand Stand was still fairly empty, but the rest of the
course was already lined with people. It stretched up and
down hill for a circle of thirteen or fourteen miles, and
those who were fortunate enough to own cottages or public
houses at the more dangerous corners had covered their
roofs with unstable wooden forms, and were selling tickets
like very expensive hot cakes. A grass-covered hill rose up
sharply behind the pits. On this had been erected a hoarding
where a troop of Boy Scouts were preparing to score the laps,
passing the time contentedly with ginger beer, toffee, and
rough-and-tumble fights. Behind the hoarding was a barbed
wire fence, and behind that again a crowd of spectators and
several refreshment tents. A wooden bridge, advertising the
<i>Morning Despatch</i>, had been built on the road. At various
points officials might be seen attempting to understand each
other over a field telephone. Sometimes the band would
stop and a voice would announce, ‘Will Mr So-and-So
kindly report at once to the time-keeper’s office’; then the
band would go on.</p>

<p>Miss Runcible and her party found their way to the pit
numbered 13 and sat on the matchboard counter smoking
and signing autograph books. An official bore down on them.</p>

<p>‘No smoking in the pits, please.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, I’m terribly sorry. I didn’t know.’</p>

<p>There were six open churns behind Miss Runcible, four
containing petrol and two water. She threw her cigarette
over her shoulder, and by a beneficent attention of Providence
which was quite rare in her career it fell into the
water. Had it fallen into the petrol it would probably have
been all up with Miss Runcible.</p>

<p>Presently No. 13 appeared. Miles’ friend and his mechanic
wearing overalls, crash-helmets, and goggles, jumped out,
opened the bonnet and began to reconstruct it again.</p>

<p>‘They didn’t ought to have a No. 13 at all,’ said the
mechanic. ‘It isn’t fair.’</p>

<p>Miss Runcible lit another cigarette.</p>

<p>‘No smoking in the pits, <i>please</i>,’ said the official.</p>

<p>‘My dear, how <i>awful</i> of me. I quite forgot.’</p>

<p>(This time it fell in the mechanic’s luncheon basket and
lay smouldering quietly on a leg of chicken until it had
burnt itself out.)</p>

<p>Miles’ friend began filling up his petrol tank with the
help of a very large funnel.</p>

<p>‘Listen,’ he said. ‘You’re not allowed to hand me anything
direct, but if Edwards holds up his left hand as we come past
the pits, that means we shall be stopping next lap for petrol.
So what you’ve got to do is to fill up a couple of cans and put
them on the shelf with the funnel for Edwards to take. If
Edwards holds up his right hand ...’ elaborate instructions
followed. ‘You’re in charge of the depôt,’ he said to Archie.
‘D’you think you’ve got all the signals clear? The race may
depend on them, remember.’</p>

<p>‘What does it mean if I wave the blue flag?’</p>

<p>‘That you want me to stop.’</p>

<p>‘Why should I want you to stop?’</p>

<p>‘Well, you might see something wrong—leaking tank or
anything like that, or the officials might want the number
plate cleaned.’</p>

<p>‘I think perhaps I won’t do anything much about the blue
flag. It seems rather too bogus for me.’</p>

<p>Miss Runcible lit another cigarette.</p>

<p>‘Will you kindly leave the pits if you wish to smoke?’ said
the official.</p>

<p>‘What a damned rude man,’ said Miss Runcible. ‘Let’s go
up to that divine tent and get a drink.’</p>

<p>They climbed the hill past the Boy Scouts, found a gate
in the wire fence, and eventually reached the refreshment
tent. Here an atmosphere of greater geniality prevailed. A
profusion of men in plus-fours were having ‘quick ones’
before the start. There was no nonsense about not smoking.
There was a middle-aged woman sitting on the grass with a
bottle of stout and a baby.</p>

<p>‘Home from home,’ said Miss Runcible.</p>

<p>Suddenly the military band stopped and a voice said, ‘Five
minutes to twelve. All drivers and mechanics on the other
side of the track, please.’</p>

<p>There was a hush all over the course, and the refreshment
tent began to empty quickly.</p>

<p>‘Darling, we shall miss the start.’</p>

<p>‘Still, a drink <i>would</i> be nice.’</p>

<p>So they went into the tent.</p>

<p>‘Four whiskies, please,’ said Archie Schwert.</p>

<p>‘You’ll miss the start,’ said the barmaid.</p>

<p>‘What a pig that man was,’ said Miss Runcible. ‘Even if
we weren’t supposed to smoke, he might at least have asked
us politely.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, it was only you.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I think that made it worse.’</p>

<p>‘Lor’, Miss,’ said the barmaid. ‘You surely ain’t going to
miss the start?’</p>

<p>‘It’s the one thing I want to see more than anything ...
my dear, I believe they’re off already.’</p>

<p>The sudden roar of sixty high-power engines rose from
below. ‘They <i>have</i> started ... how too shaming.’ They
went to the door of the tent. Part of the road was visible
over the heads of the spectators, and they caught a glimpse
of the cars running all jammed together like pigs being
driven through a gate; one by one they shook themselves
free and disappeared round the bend with a high shriek of
acceleration.</p>

<p>‘They’ll be round again in quarter of an hour,’ said
Archie. ‘Let’s have another drink.’</p>

<p>‘Who was ahead?’ asked the barmaid anxiously.</p>

<p>‘I couldn’t see for certain,’ said Miss Runcible, ‘but I’m
fairly sure it was No. 13.’</p>

<p>‘<i>My!</i>’</p>

<p>The refreshment tent soon began to fill up again. The
general opinion seemed to be that it was going to be a close
race between No. 13 and No. 28, a red Omega car, driven by
Marino, the Italian ‘ace’.</p>

<p>‘Dirtiest driver I ever seen,’ said one man with relish.</p>

<p>‘Why, over at Belfast ’e was just tipping ’em all into the
ditches, just like winking.’</p>

<p>‘There’s one thing you <i>can</i> be sure of. They won’t <i>both</i>
finish.’</p>

<p>‘It’s sheer murder the way that Marino drives—a fair
treat to see ’im.’</p>

<p>‘He’s a one all right—a real artist and no mistake about it.’</p>

<p>Adam and Miss Runcible and Archie and Miles went
back to their pit.</p>

<p>‘After all,’ said Miss Runcible, ‘the poor sweet may be
wanting all sorts of things and signalling away like mad, and
no one there to pay any attention to him—so discouraging.’</p>

<p>By this time the cars were fairly evenly spread out over
the course. They flashed by intermittently with dazzling
speed and a shriek; one or two drew into their pits and the
drivers leapt out, trembling like leaves, to tinker with the
works. One had already come to grief—a large German
whose tyre had burst—punctured, some said, by a hireling
of Marino’s. It had left the road and shot up a tree like a cat
chased by a dog. Two little American cars had failed to
start; their team worked desperately at them amid derisive
comments from the crowd. Suddenly two cars appeared
coming down the straight, running abreast within two feet
of each other.</p>

<p>‘It’s No. 13,’ cried Miss Runcible, really excited at last.
‘And there’s that Italian devil just beside it. Come on, thirteen!
Come on!’ she cried, dancing in the pit and waving a
flag she found at hand. ‘Come on. Oh! Well done, thirteen.’</p>

<p>The cars were gone in a flash and succeeded by others.</p>

<p>‘Agatha, darling, you shouldn’t have waved the blue flag.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, how awful. Why not?’</p>

<p>‘Well, that means that he’s to stop next lap.’</p>

<p>‘Good God. Did I wave a blue flag?’</p>

<p>‘My dear, you know you did.’</p>

<p>‘<i>How</i> shaming. What <i>am</i> I to say to him?’</p>

<p>‘Let’s all go away before he comes back.’</p>

<p>‘D’you know, I think we’d better. He might be furious,
mightn’t he? Let’s go to the tent and have another drink—don’t
you think, or don’t you?’</p>

<p>So No. 13 pit was again deserted.</p>

<hr/>

<p>‘What did I say?’ said the mechanic. ‘The moment I
heard we’d drawn this blinkin’ number I knew we was in
for trouble.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>The first person they saw when they reached the refreshment
tent was the drunk Major.</p>

<p>‘Your boy friend again,’ said Miles.</p>

<p>‘Well, there you are,’ said the Major. ‘D’you know I’ve
been chasing you all over London. What have you been
doing with yourself all this time?’</p>

<p>‘I’ve been staying at Lottie’s.’</p>

<p>‘Well, she said she’d never heard of you. You see, I
don’t mind admitting I’d had a few too many that night, and
to tell you the truth I woke up with things all rather a blur.
Well then I found a thousand pounds in my pocket, and it
all came back to me. There’d been a cove at Lottie’s who
gave me a thousand pounds to put on Indian Runner. Well,
as far as I knew, Indian Runner was no good. I didn’t want
to lose your money for you, but the devil of it was I didn’t
know you from Adam.’ (‘I think that’s a perfect joke,’ said
Miss Runcible.) ‘And apparently Lottie didn’t either. You’d
have thought it was easy enough to trace the sort of chap
who deals out thousands of pounds to total strangers, but I
couldn’t find one fingerprint.’</p>

<p>‘Do you mean,’ said Adam, a sudden delirious hope rising
in his heart, ‘that you’ve still got my thousand?’</p>

<p>‘Not so fast,’ said the Major. ‘I’m spinning this yarn. Well,
on the day of the race I didn’t know what to do. One half of
me said, keep the thousand. The chap’s bound to turn up
some time, and it’s his business to do his own punting—the
other half said, put it on the favourite for him and give him
a run for his money.’</p>

<p>‘So you put it on the favourite?’ Adam’s heart felt like
lead again.</p>

<p>‘No, I didn’t. In the end I said, well, the young chap must be
frightfully rich. If he likes to throwaway his money, it’s none
of my business, so I planked it all on Indian Runner for you.’</p>

<p>‘You mean ...’</p>

<p>‘I mean I’ve got the nice little packet of thirty-five thou.
waiting until you condescend to call for it.’</p>

<p>‘Good heavens ... look here, have a drink, won’t you?’</p>

<p>‘That’s a thing I never refuse.’</p>

<p>‘Archie, lend me some money until I get this fortune.’</p>

<p>‘How much?’</p>

<p>‘Enough to buy five bottles of champagne.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, if you can get them.’</p>

<p>The barmaid had a case of champagne at the back of the
tent. (‘People often feel queer through watching the cars go
by so fast—ladies especially,’ she explained.) So they took a
bottle each and sat on the side of the hill and drank to
Adam’s prosperity.</p>

<p>‘Hullo, everybody,’ said the loud speaker. ‘Car No. 28, the
Italian Omega, driven by Captain Marino, has just completed
the course in twelve minutes one second, lapping at
an average speed of 78·3 miles per hour. This is the fastest
time yet recorded.’</p>

<p>A burst of applause greeted this announcement, but
Adam said, ‘I’ve rather lost interest in this race.’</p>

<p>‘Look here, old boy,’ the Major said when they were well
settled down, ‘I’m rather in a hole. Makes me feel an awful
ass, saying so, but the truth is I got my note-case pinched in
the crowd. Of course, I’ve got plenty of small change to see
me back to the hotel and they’ll take a cheque of mine there,
naturally, but the fact is I was keen to make a few bets with
some chaps I hardly know. I wonder, old boy, could you
possibly lend me a fiver? I can give it to you at the same time
as I hand over the thirty-five thousand.’</p>

<p>‘Why, of course,’ said Adam. ‘Archie, lend me a fiver, can
you?’</p>

<p>‘Awfully good of you,’ said the Major, tucking the notes
into his hip pocket. ‘Would it be all the same if you made it a
tenner while we’re about it?’</p>

<p>‘I’m sorry,’ said Archie, with a touch of coldness. ‘I’ve
only just got enough to get home with.’</p>

<p>‘That’s all right, old boy, <i>I</i> understand. Not another word.
... Well, here’s to us all.’</p>

<p>‘I was on the course at the November Handicap,’ said
Adam. ‘I thought I saw you.’</p>

<p>‘It would have saved a lot of fuss if we’d met, wouldn’t it?
Still, all’s well that end’s well.’</p>

<p>‘What an <i>angelic</i> man your Major is,’ said Miss Runcible.</p>

<p>When they had finished their champagne, the Major—now
indisputably drunk—rose to go.</p>

<p>‘Look here, old boy,’ he said. ‘I must be toddling along
now. Got to see some chaps. Thanks no end for the binge. So
jolly having met you all again. Bye-bye, little lady.’</p>

<p>‘When shall we meet again?’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘Any time, old boy. Tickled to death to see you any time
you care to drop in. Always a pew and a drink for old friends.
So long everybody.’</p>

<p>‘But couldn’t I come and see you soon? About the money,
you know.’</p>

<p>‘Sooner the better, old boy. Though I don’t know what
you mean about money.’</p>

<p>‘My thirty-five thousand.’</p>

<p>‘Why, yes, to be sure. Fancy my forgetting that. I tell you
what. You roll along to-night to the Imperial and I’ll give it
to you then. Jolly glad to get it off my chest. Seven o’clock
at the American bar—or a little before.’</p>

<p>‘Let’s go back and look at the motor cars,’ said Archie.</p>

<p>They went down the hill feeling buoyant and detached
(as one should if one drinks a great deal before luncheon).
When they reached the pits they decided they were hungry.
It seemed too far to climb up to the dining tent, so they ate as
much of the mechanic’s lunch as Miss Runcible’s cigarette
had spared. Then a mishap happened to No. 13. It drew into
the side uncertainly, with the mechanic holding the steering
wheel. A spanner, he told them, thrown from Marino’s car
as they were passing him under the railway bridge, had hit
Miles’ friend on the shoulder. The mechanic helped him get
out, and supported him to the Red Cross tent. ‘May as well
scratch,’ he said. ‘He won’t be good for anything more this
afternoon. It’s asking for trouble having a No. 13.’ Miles
went to help his friend, leaving Miss Runcible and Adam
and Archie staring rather stupidly at their motor car.
Archie hiccoughed slightly as he ate the mechanic’s apple.</p>

<p>Soon an official appeared.</p>

<p>‘What happened here?’ he said.</p>

<p>‘Driver’s just been murdered,’ said Archie. ‘Spanner
under the railway bridge. Marino.’</p>

<p>‘Well, are you going to scratch? Who’s spare driver?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know. Do you, Adam? I shouldn’t be a bit surprised
if they hadn’t murdered the spare driver, too.’</p>

<p>‘I’m spare driver,’ said Miss Runcible. ‘It’s on my arm.’</p>

<p>‘She’s spare driver. Look, it’s on her arm.’</p>

<p>‘Well, do you want to scratch?’</p>

<p>‘Don’t you scratch, Agatha.’</p>

<p>‘No, I don’t want to scratch.’</p>

<p>‘All right. What’s your name?’</p>

<p>‘Agatha. I’m the spare driver. It’s on my arm.’</p>

<p>‘I can see it is—all right, start off as soon as you like.’</p>

<p>‘Agatha,’ repeated Miss Runcible firmly as she climbed
into the car. ‘It’s on my arm.’</p>

<p>‘I say, Agatha,’ said Adam. ‘Are you sure you’re all right?’</p>

<p>‘It’s on my arm,’ said Miss Runcible severely.</p>

<p>‘I mean, are you quite certain it’s absolutely safe?’</p>

<p>‘Not <i>absolutely</i> safe, Adam. Not if they throw spanners.
But I’ll go quite slowly at first until I’m used to it. Just
you see. Coming too?’</p>

<p>‘I’ll stay and wave the flag,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘That’s right. Good-bye ... goodness, how too stiff-scaring....’</p>

<p>The car shot out into the middle of the road, missed a
collision by a foot, swung round and disappeared with a roar
up the road.</p>

<p>‘I say, Archie, is it all right being tight in a car, if it’s on a
race course? They won’t run her in or anything?’</p>

<p>‘No, no, that’s all right. All tight on the race course.’</p>

<p>‘Sure?’</p>

<p>‘Sure.’</p>

<p>‘All of them?’</p>

<p>‘Absolutely every one—tight as houses.’</p>

<p>‘That’s all right then. Let’s go and have a drink.’</p>

<p>So they went up the hill again, through the Boy Scouts,
to the refreshment tent.</p>

<p>It was not long before Miss Runcible was in the news.</p>

<p>‘Hullo, everybody,’ said the loud speaker. ‘No 13, the
English Plunket-Bowse, driven by Miss Agatha, came into
collision at Headlong Corner with No. 28, the Italian
Omega car, driven by Captain Marino. No 13 righted itself
and continued on the course. No. 28 overturned and has
retired from the race.’</p>

<p>‘Well done, Agatha,’ said Archie.</p>

<p>A few minutes later:</p>

<p>‘Hullo, everybody. No. 13, the English Plunket-Bowse,
driven by Miss Agatha, has just completed the course in nine
minutes forty-one seconds. This constitutes a record for the
course.’</p>

<p>Patriotic cheers broke out on all sides, and Miss Runcible’s
health was widely drunk in the refreshment tent.</p>

<p>A few minutes later:</p>

<p>‘Hullo, everybody; I have to contradict the announcement
recently made that No. 13, the English Plunket-Bowse,
driven by Miss Agatha, had established a record for the
course. The stewards have now reported that No. 13 left the
road just after the level crossing and cut across country for
five miles, rejoining the track at the Red Lion corner. The
lap has therefore been disallowed by the judges.’</p>

<p>A few minutes later:</p>

<p>‘Hullo, everybody; No. 13, the English Plunket-Bowse
car, driven by Miss Agatha, has retired from the race. It
disappeared from the course some time ago, turning left
instead of right at Church Corner, and was last seen proceeding
south on the bye-road, apparently out of control.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, that’s lucky for me,’ said Miles. ‘A really good
story my second day on the paper. This ought to do me good
with the <i>Excess</i>—<i>very</i> rich-making,’ and he hurried off to
the post office tent—which was one of the amenities of the
course—to despatch a long account of Miss Runcible’s
disaster.</p>

<p>Adam accompanied him and sent a wire to Nina: ‘<span class='it'>Drunk
Major in refreshment tent not bogus thirty-five thousand
married to-morrow everything perfect Agatha lost love
Adam.</span>’</p>

<p>‘That seems quite clear,’ he said.</p>

<p>They went to the hospital tent after this—another amenity
of the course—to see how Miles’ friend was getting on.
He seemed in some pain and showed anxiety about his car.</p>

<p>‘I think it’s very heartless of him,’ said Adam. ‘He ought
to be worried about Agatha. It only shows ...’</p>

<p>‘Motor men <i>are</i> heartless,’ said Miles, with a sigh.</p>

<p>Presently Captain Marino was borne in on a stretcher.
He turned on his side with a deep groan and spat at Miles’
friend as he went past him. He also spat at the doctor who
came to bandage him and bit one of the V.A.D.’s.</p>

<p>They said Captain Marino was no gentleman in the
hospital tent.</p>

<p>There was no chance of leaving the course before the end
of the race, Archie was told, and the race would not be over
for at least two hours. Round and round went the stream of
cars. At intervals the Boy Scouts posted a large red R
against one or other of the numbers, as engine trouble or
collision or Headlong Corner took its toll. A long queue
stretched along the top of the hill from the door of the
luncheon tent. Then it began to rain.</p>

<p>There was nothing for it but to go back to the bar.</p>

<p>At dusk the last car completed its course. The silver gilt
trophy was presented to the winner. The loud speaker
broadcast ‘God Save the King’, and a cheerful ‘Good-bye,
everybody.’ The tail of the queue outside the dining tent
were respectfully informed that no more luncheons could be
served. The barmaids in the refreshment tent said, ‘All
glasses, ladies and gentlemen, please.’ The motor ambulances
began a final round of the track to pick up survivors.
Then Adam and Miles and Archie Schwert went to
look for their car.</p>

<p>Darkness fell during the drive back. It took an hour to
reach the town. Adam and Miles and Archie Schwert did not
talk much. The effect of their drinks had now entered on
that secondary stage, vividly described in temperance handbooks,
when the momentary illusion of well-being and exhilaration
gives place to melancholy, indigestion and moral
decay. Adam tried to concentrate his thoughts upon his
sudden wealth, but they seemed unable to adhere to this
high pinnacle, and as often as he impelled them up, slithered
back helplessly to his present physical discomfort.</p>

<p>The sluggish procession in which they were moving led
them eventually to the centre of the town and the soberly
illuminated front of the Imperial Hotel. A torrential flow of
wet and hungry motor enthusiasts swept and eddied about
the revolving doors.</p>

<p>‘I shall die if I don’t eat something soon,’ said Miles.
‘Let’s leave Agatha until we’ve had a meal.’</p>

<p>But the manager of the ‘Imperial’ was unimpressed by
numbers or necessity and manfully upheld the integrity of
British hotel-keeping. Tea, he explained, was served daily
in the Palm Court, with orchestra on Thursdays and Sundays,
between the hours of four and six. A <i>table d’hôte</i>
dinner was served in the dining-room from seven-thirty
until nine o’clock. An <i>à la carte</i> dinner was also served in the
grill room at the same time. It was now twenty minutes
past six. If the gentlemen cared to return in an hour and ten
minutes he would do his best to accommodate them, but he
could not promise to reserve a table. Things were busy that
day. There had been motor races in the neighbourhood, he
explained.</p>

<p>The commissionaire was more helpful, and told them that
there was a tea-shop restaurant called the Café Royal a little
way down the High Street, next to the Cinema. He seemed,
however, to have given the same advice to all comers, for the
Café Royal was crowded and overflowing. Every one was
being thoroughly cross, but only the most sarcastic and overbearing
were given tables, and only the gross and outrageous
were given food. Adam and Miles and Archie
Schwert then tried two more tea-shops, one kept by ‘ladies’
and called ‘The Honest Injun’, a workmen’s dining-room
and a fried-fish shop. Eventually they bought a bag of
mixed biscuits at a co-operative store, which they ate in the
Palm Court of the ‘Imperial’, maintaining a moody silence.</p>

<p>It was now after seven, and Adam remembered his
appointment in the American bar. There, too, inevitably,
was a dense crowd. Some of the ‘Speed Kings’ themselves
had appeared, pink from their baths, wearing dinner-jackets
and stiff white shirts, each in his circle of admirers. Adam
struggled to the bar.</p>

<p>‘Have you seen a drunk Major in here anywhere?’ he
asked.</p>

<p>The barmaid sniffed. ‘I should think not, indeed,’ she
said. ‘And I shouldn’t serve him if he <i>did</i> come in. I don’t
have people of that description in <i>my</i> bar. <i>The very idea.</i>’</p>

<p>‘Well, perhaps he’s not drunk now. But have you seen a
stout, red-faced man, with a single eyeglass and a turned-up
moustache?’</p>

<p>‘Well, there <i>was</i> some one like that not so long ago. Are
you a friend of his?’</p>

<p>‘I want to see him badly.’</p>

<p>‘Well, all I can say is I wish you’d try and look after him
and don’t bring him in here again. Going on something
awful he was. Broke two glasses and got very quarrelsome
with the other gentlemen. He had three or four pound notes
in his hand. Kept waving them about and saying, “D’you
know what? I met a mutt to-day. I owe him thirty-five
thousand pounds and he lent me a fiver.” Well, that’s not
the way to talk before strangers, is it? He went out ten
minutes ago. I was glad to see the back of him, I can tell
you.’</p>

<p>‘Did he say that—about having met a mutt?’</p>

<p>‘Didn’t stop saying it the whole time he was in here—most
monotonous.’</p>

<p>But as Adam left the bar he saw the Major coming out of
the gentlemen’s lavatory. He was walking very deliberately,
and stared at Adam with a glazed and vacant eye.</p>

<p>‘Hi!’ cried Adam. ‘Hi!’</p>

<p>‘Cheerio,’ said the drunk Major distantly.</p>

<p>‘I say,’ said Adam. ‘What about my thirty-five thousand
pounds?’</p>

<p>The drunk Major stopped and adjusted his monocle.</p>

<p>‘Thirty-five thousand and five pounds,’ he said. ‘What
about them?’</p>

<p>‘Well, where are they?’</p>

<p>‘They’re safe enough. National and Provincial Union
Bank of England, Limited. A perfectly sound and upright
company. I’d trust them with more than that if I had it.
I’d trust them with a million, old boy, honest I would. One
of those fine old companies, you know. They don’t make
companies like that now. I’d trust that bank with my wife
and kiddies.... You mustn’t think I’d put your money into
anything that wasn’t straight, old boy. You ought to know
me well enough for that....’</p>

<p>‘No, of course not. It’s terribly kind of you to have looked
after it—you said you’d give me a cheque this evening.
Don’t you remember?’</p>

<p>The drunk Major looked at him craftily. ‘Ah,’ he said.
‘That’s another matter. I told <i>some one</i> I’d give him a
cheque. But how am I to know it was you? ... I’ve got to be
careful, you know. Suppose you were just a crook dressed up.
I don’t say you are, mind, but supposing. Where’ld I be
then? You have to look at both sides of a case like this.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, God.... I’ve got two friends here who’ll swear to
you I’m Adam Symes. Will that do?’</p>

<p>‘Might be a gang. Besides <i>I</i> don’t know that the name of
the chap who gave me the thousand <i>was</i> Adam what-d’you-call-it
at all. Only your word for it. I’ll tell you what,’ said
the Major, sitting down in a deep armchair, ‘I’ll sleep on it.
Just forty winks. I’ll let you know my decision when I wake
up. Don’t think me suspicious, old boy, but I’ve got to be
careful ... other chap’s money, you know ...’ And he fell
asleep.</p>

<p>Adam struggled through the crowd to the Palm Court,
where he had left Miles and Archie. News of No. 13 had just
come through. The car had been found piled up on the
market cross of a large village about fifteen miles away
(doing irreparable damage to a monument already scheduled
for preservation by the Office of Works). But there was no
sign of Miss Runcible.</p>

<p>‘I suppose we ought to do something about it,’ said
Miles. ‘This is the most miserable day I ever spent. Did you
get your fortune?’</p>

<p>‘The Major was too drunk to recognize me. He’s just gone
to sleep.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Well.</i>’</p>

<p>‘We must go to this beastly village and look for Agatha.’</p>

<p>‘I can’t leave my Major. He’ll probably wake up soon and
give the fortune to the first person he sees.’</p>

<p>‘Let’s just go and shake him until he gives us the fortune
now,’ said Miles.</p>

<p>But this was impracticable, for when they reached the
chair where Adam had left him, the drunk Major was gone.</p>

<p>The hall porter remembered him going out quite clearly.
He had pressed a pound into his hand, saving, ‘Met-a-mutt-to-day,’
and taken a taxi to the station.</p>

<p>‘D’you know,’ said Adam. ‘I don’t believe that I’m ever
going to get that fortune.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I don’t see that you’ve very much to complain of,’
said Archie. ‘You’re no worse off than you were. <i>I’ve</i> lost a
fiver and five bottles of champagne.’</p>

<p>‘That’s true,’ said Adam, a little consoled.</p>

<hr/>

<p>They got into the car and drove through the rain to the
village where the Plunket-Bowse had been found. There it
stood, still smoking and partially recognizable, surrounded
by admiring villagers. A constable in a waterproof cape was
doing his best to preserve it intact from the raids of souvenir
hunters who were collecting the smaller fragments.</p>

<p>No one seemed to have witnessed the disaster. The
younger members of the community were all at the races,
while the elders were engaged in their afternoon naps. One
thought he had heard a crash.</p>

<p>Inquiries at the railway station, however, disclosed that a
young lady, much dishevelled in appearance, and wearing
some kind of band on her arm, had appeared in the booking
office early that afternoon and asked where she was. On
being told, she said, well, she wished she wasn’t, because
some one had left an enormous stone spanner in the middle
of the road. She admitted feeling rather odd. The station-master
had asked her if she would like to come in and sit
down and offered to get her some brandy. She said, ‘No, no
more brandy,’ and bought a first-class ticket to London. She
had left on the 3.25 train.</p>

<p>‘So that’s all right,’ said Archie.</p>

<p>Then they left the village and presently found an hotel on
the Great North Road, where they dined and spent the
night. They reached London by luncheon time next day,
and learned that Miss Runcible had been found early that
morning staring fixedly at a model engine in the central hall
at Euston Station. In answer to some gentle questions, she
replied that to the best of her knowledge she had no name,
pointing to the brassard on her arm, as if in confirmation of
this fact. She had come in a motor car, she explained, which
would not stop. It was full of bugs which she had tried to kill
with drops of face lotion. One of them threw a spanner.
There had been a stone thing in the way. They shouldn’t
put up symbols like that in the middle of the road, should
they, or should they?</p>

<p>So they conveyed her to a nursing home in Wimpole
Street and kept her for some time in a darkened room.</p>

<h2>Chapter Eleven</h2>

<p>Adam rang up Nina.</p>

<p>‘Darling, I’ve been so happy about your telegram. Is it
really true?’</p>

<p>‘No, I’m afraid not.’</p>

<p>‘The Major <i>is</i> bogus?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘You haven’t got any money?’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>‘We aren’t going to be married to-day?’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>‘I see.’</p>

<p>‘Well?’</p>

<p>‘I said, I see.’</p>

<p>‘Is that all?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, that’s all, Adam.’</p>

<p>‘I’m sorry.’</p>

<p>‘I’m sorry, too. Good-bye.’</p>

<p>‘Good-bye, Nina.’</p>

<p>Later Nina rang up Adam.</p>

<p>‘Darling, is that you? I’ve got something rather awful to
tell you.’</p>

<p>‘Yes?’</p>

<p>‘You’ll be furious.’</p>

<p>‘Well?’</p>

<p>‘I’m engaged to be married.’</p>

<p>‘Who to?’</p>

<p>‘I hardly think I can tell you.’</p>

<p>‘Who?’</p>

<p>‘Adam, you won’t be beastly about it, will you?’</p>

<p>‘Who is it?’</p>

<p>‘Ginger.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t believe it.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I am. That’s all there is to it.’</p>

<p>‘You’re going to marry Ginger?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘I see.’</p>

<p>‘Well?’</p>

<p>‘I said, I see.’</p>

<p>‘Is that all?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, that’s all, Nina.’</p>

<p>‘When shall I see you?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t want ever to see you again.’</p>

<p>‘I see.’</p>

<p>‘Well?’</p>

<p>‘I said, I see.’</p>

<p>‘Well, good-bye.’</p>

<p>‘Good-bye.... I’m sorry, Adam.’</p>

<h2>Chapter Twelve</h2>

<p>Ten days later Adam bought some flowers at the corner of
Wigmore Street and went to call on Miss Runcible at her
nursing home. He was shown first into the matron’s room.
She had numerous photographs in silver frames and a very
nasty fox terrier. She smoked a cigarette in a greedy way,
making slight sucking noises.</p>

<p>‘Just taking a moment off in my den,’ she explained.
‘Down, Spot, down. But I can see you’re fond of dogs,’ she
added, as Adam gave Spot a half-hearted pat on the head.
‘So you want to see Miss Runcible? Well, I ought to warn
you first that she must have no kind of excitement whatever.
She’s had a severe shock. Are you a relation, may I
ask?’</p>

<p>‘No, only a friend.’</p>

<p>‘A very <i>special</i> friend, perhaps, eh?’ said the Matron
archly. ‘Never mind, I’ll spare your blushes. Just you run up
and see her. But not more than five minutes, mind, or
you’ll have me on your tracks.’</p>

<p>There was a reek of ether on the stairs which reminded
Adam of the times when, waiting to take her to luncheon, he
had sat on Nina’s bed while she did her face. (She invariably
made him turn his back until it was over, having a keen
sense of modesty about this one part of her toilet, in curious
contrast to some girls, who would die rather than be seen in
their underclothes, and yet openly flaunt unpainted faces in
front of anyone.)</p>

<p>It hurt Adam deeply to think much about Nina.</p>

<p>Outside Miss Runcible’s door hung a very interesting
chart which showed the fluctuations of her temperature and
pulse and many other curious details of her progress. He
studied this with pleasure until a nurse, carrying a tray of
highly polished surgical instruments, gave him such a look
that he felt obliged to turn away.</p>

<p>Miss Runcible lay in a high, narrow bed in a darkened
room.</p>

<p>A nurse was crocheting at her side when Adam entered.
She rose, dropping a few odds and ends from her lap, and
said, ‘There’s someone come to see you, dear. Now remember
you aren’t to talk much,’ She took the flowers from
Adam’s hand, said, ‘Look, what lovelies. Aren’t you a
lucky girl?’ and left the room with them. She returned a
moment later carrying them in a jug of water. ‘There, the
thirsties,’ she said. ‘Don’t they love to get back to the nice
cool water?’</p>

<p>Then she went out again.</p>

<p>‘Darling,’ said a faint voice from the bed, ‘I can’t really
see who it is. Would it be awful to draw the curtains?’</p>

<p>Adam crossed the room and let in the light of the grey
December afternoon.</p>

<p>‘My dear, how blind-making. There are some cocktail
things in the wardrobe. Do make a big one. The nurses love
them so. It’s such a nice nursing home this, Adam, only all
the nurses are starved, and there’s a breath-taking young
man next door who keeps putting his head in and asking how
I am. <i>He</i> fell out of an <i>aeroplane</i>, which is rather grand,
don’t you think?’</p>

<p>‘How are you feeling, Agatha?’</p>

<p>‘Well, rather odd, to tell you the truth.... How’s
Nina?’</p>

<p>‘She’s got engaged to be married—haven’t you heard?’</p>

<p>‘My dear, the nurses are interested in no one but Princess
Elizabeth. Do tell me.’</p>

<p>‘A young man called Ginger.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Well?</i>’</p>

<p>‘Don’t you remember him? He came on with us after the
airship party.’</p>

<p>‘Not the one who was sick?’</p>

<p>‘No, the other.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t remember ... does Nina call him Ginger?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘Why?’</p>

<p>‘He asked her to.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Well?</i>’</p>

<p>‘She used to play with him when they were children. So
she’s going to marry him.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, isn’t that rather sad-making for you?’</p>

<p>‘I’m desperate about it. I’m thinking of committing
suicide, like Simon.’</p>

<p>‘Don’t do that, darling ... did Simon commit suicide?’</p>

<p>‘My dear, you know he did. The night all those libel
actions started.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, <i>that</i> Simon. I thought you meant <i>Simon</i>.’</p>

<p>‘Who’s Simon?’</p>

<p>‘The young man who fell out of the aeroplane. The
nurses call him Simple Simon because it’s affected his
brains ... but, Adam I <i>am</i> sorry about Nina. I’ll tell you
what we’ll do. As soon as I’m well again we’ll make Mary
Mouse give a lovely party to cheer you up.’</p>

<p>‘Haven’t you heard about Mary?’</p>

<p>‘No, what?’</p>

<p>‘She went off to Monte Carlo with the Maharajah of Pukkapore.’</p>

<p>‘<i>My dear</i>, aren’t the Mice furious?’</p>

<p>‘She’s just receiving religious instruction before her
official reception as a royal concubine. Then they’re going to
India.’</p>

<p>‘How people are <i>disappearing</i>, Adam. Did you get that
money from the drunk Major?’</p>

<p>‘No, he disappeared too.’</p>

<p>‘D’you know, all that time when I was dotty I had the
most awful dreams. I thought we were all driving round and
round in a motor race and none of us could stop, and there
was an enormous audience composed entirely of gossip
writers and gate-crashers and Archie Schwert and people
like that, all shouting to us at once to go faster, and car after
car kept crashing until I was left all alone driving and driving—and
then I used to crash and wake up.’</p>

<p>Then the door opened, and Miles came popping in.</p>

<p>‘Agatha, Adam, my dears. The <i>time</i> I’ve had trying to get
in. I can’t tell you how bogus they were downstairs. First I
said I was Lord Chasm, and that wasn’t any good; and I said
I was one of the doctors, and that wasn’t any good; and I
said I was your young man, and <i>that</i> wasn’t any good; and I
said I was a gossip writer, and they let me up at once and
said I wasn’t to excite you, but would I put a piece in my
paper about their nursing home. <i>How</i> are you, Aggie darling?
I brought up some new records.’</p>

<p>‘You are angelic. Do let’s try them. There’s a gramophone
under the bed.’</p>

<p>‘There’s a whole lot more people coming to see you to-day.
I saw them all at luncheon at Margot’s. Johnny Hoop and
Van and Archie Schwert. I wonder if they’ll all manage to
get in.’</p>

<p>They got in.</p>

<p>So soon there was quite a party, and Simon appeared from
next door in a very gay dressing-gown, and they played the
new records and Miss Runcible moved her bandaged limbs
under the bedclothes in negro rhythm.</p>

<p>Last of all, Nina came in looking quite lovely and very ill.</p>

<p>‘Nina, I hear you’re engaged.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, it’s very lucky. My papa has just put all his money
into a cinema film and lost it all.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, it doesn’t matter at all. My papa lost all his
twice. It doesn’t make a bit of difference. That’s just one of
the things one has to learn about losing all one’s money....
Is it true that you really call him Ginger?’</p>

<p>‘Well, yes, only, Agatha, please don’t be unkind about it.’</p>

<p>And the gramophone was playing the song which the
black man sang at the Café de la Paix.</p>

<p>Then the nurse came in.</p>

<p>‘Well, you are noisy ones, and no mistake,’ she said. ‘I
don’t know what the matron would say if she were here.’</p>

<p>‘Have a chocolate, sister?’</p>

<p>‘<i>Ooh, chocs!</i>’</p>

<p>Adam made another cocktail.</p>

<p>Miles sat on Miss Runcible’s bed and took up the telephone
and began dictating some paragraphs about the nursing
home.</p>

<p>‘What it is to have a friend in the Press,’ said the nurse.</p>

<p>Adam brought her a cocktail. ‘Shall I?’ she said. ‘I hope
you haven’t made it too strong. Suppose it goes to my head?
What would the patients think if their sister came in tiddly.
Well, if you’re <i>sure</i> it won’t hurt me, thanks.’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>... Yesterday I visited the Hon. Agatha Runcible comma
Lord Chasm’s lovely daughter comma at the Wimpole Street
nursing home where she is recovering from the effects of the
motor accident recently described in this column stop Miss
Runcible was entertaining quite a large party which included
...</span>’</p>

<p>Adam, handing round cocktails, came to Nina.</p>

<p>‘I thought we were never going to meet each other again.’</p>

<p>‘We were obviously bound to, weren’t we?’</p>

<p>‘Agatha’s looking better than I expected, isn’t she? What
an amusing nursing home.’</p>

<p>‘Nina, I must see you again. Come back to Lottie’s this
evening and have dinner with me.’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Please.</i>’</p>

<p>‘No. Ginger wouldn’t like it.’</p>

<p>‘Nina, you aren’t in love with him?’</p>

<p>‘No, I don’t think so.’</p>

<p>‘Are you in love with me?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know ... I was once.’</p>

<p>‘Nina, I’m absolutely miserable not seeing you. Do come
and dine with me to-night. What can be the harm in that?’</p>

<p>‘My dear, I know exactly what it will mean.’</p>

<p>‘Well, why not?’</p>

<p>‘You see, Ginger’s not like us really about that sort of
thing. He’d be furious.’</p>

<p>‘Well, what about me? Surely I have first claim?’</p>

<p>‘Darling, don’t <i>bully</i>. Besides, I used to play with Ginger
as a child. His hair was a very pretty colour then.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>‘<span class='it'>... Mr “Johnny” Hoop, whose memoirs are to be published
next month, told me that he intends to devote his time to
painting in future, and is going to Paris to study in the spring.
He is to be taken into the studio of ...</span>’</p>

<hr/>

<p>‘For the last time, Nina ...’</p>

<p>‘Well, I suppose I must.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Angel!</i>’</p>

<p>‘I believe you knew I was going to.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>‘<span class='it'>... Miss Nina Blount, whose engagement to Mr “Ginger”
Littlejohn, the well-known polo player.... Mr
Schwert ...</span>’</p>

<hr/>

<p>‘If only you were as rich as Ginger, Adam, or only half as
rich. Or if only you had any money at all.’</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said the Matron, appearing suddenly. ‘Whoever
heard of cocktails and a gramophone in a concussion case?
Sister Briggs, pull down those curtains at once. Out you
go, the whole lot of you. Why, I’ve known cases die with
less.’</p>

<p>Indeed, Miss Runcible was already showing signs of
strain. She was sitting bolt upright in bed, smiling
deliriously, and bowing her bandaged head to imaginary
visitors.</p>

<p>‘<i>Darling</i>,’ she said. ‘How <i>too</i> divine ... <i>how</i> are you? ...
and how are <i>you</i>? ... how angelic of you all to come ...
only you must be careful not to fall out at the corners ...
ooh, just missed it. There goes that nasty Italian car ... I
wish I knew which thing was which in this car ... darling,
do try and drive more straight, my sweet, you were nearly
into me then.... Faster ...’</p>

<p>‘That’s all right, Miss Runcible, that’s all right. You
mustn’t get excited,’ said the Matron. ‘Sister Briggs, run for
the ice-pack quickly.’</p>

<p>‘All friends here,’ said Miss Runcible, smiling radiantly.
‘Faster.... Faster ... it’ll stop all right when the time
comes ...’</p>

<p>That evening Miss Runcible’s temperature went rocketing
up the chart in a way which aroused great interest
throughout the nursing home. Sister Briggs, over her evening
cup of cocoa, said she would be sorry to lose that case.
Such a nice bright girl—but terribly excitable.</p>

<p>At Shepheard’s Hotel Lottie said to Adam:</p>

<p>‘That chap’s been in here again after you.’</p>

<p>‘What chap, Lottie?’</p>

<p>‘How do I know what chap? Same chap as before.’</p>

<p>‘You never told me about a chap.’</p>

<p>‘Didn’t I dear? Well, I meant to.’</p>

<p>‘What did he want?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know—something about money. Dun, I expect.
Says he is coming back to-morrow.’</p>

<p>‘Well, tell him I’ve gone to Manchester.’</p>

<p>‘That’s right, dear.... What about a glass of wine?’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Later that evening Nina said: ‘You don’t seem to be enjoying
yourself very much to-night.’</p>

<p>‘Sorry, am I being a bore?’</p>

<p>‘I think I shall go home.’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘Adam, darling, what’s the matter?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know.... Nina, do you ever feel that things
simply can’t go on much longer?’</p>

<p>‘What d’you mean by things—us or everything?’</p>

<p>‘Everything.’</p>

<p>‘No—I wish I did.’</p>

<p>‘I dare say you’re right ... what are you looking for?’</p>

<p>‘Clothes.’</p>

<p>‘Why?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, Adam, what <i>do</i> you want ... you’re too impossible
this evening.’</p>

<p>‘Don’t let’s talk any more, Nina, d’you mind?’</p>

<p>Later he said: ‘I’d give anything in the world for something
different.’</p>

<p>‘Different from me or different from everything?’</p>

<p>‘Different from everything ... only I’ve got nothing
... what’s the good of talking?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, Adam, my dearest ...’</p>

<p>‘Yes?’</p>

<p>‘Nothing.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>When Adam came down next morning Lottie was having
her morning glass of champagne in the parlour.</p>

<p>‘So your little bird’s flown, has she? Sit down and have a
glass of wine. That dun’s been in again. I told him you was
in Manchester.’</p>

<p>‘Splendid.’</p>

<p>‘Seemed rather shirty about it. Said he’d go and look for
you.’</p>

<p>‘Better still.’</p>

<p>Then something happened which Adam had been dreading
or days. Lottie suddenly said:</p>

<p>‘And that reminds me. What about <i>my</i> little bill?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, yes,’ said Adam, ‘I’ve been meaning to ask for it.
Have it made out and sent up to me some time, will you?’</p>

<p>‘I’ve got it here. Bless you, what a lot you seem to have
drunk.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, I do, don’t I? Are you sure some of this champagne
wasn’t the Judge’s?’</p>

<p>‘Well, it may have been,’ admitted Lottie. ‘We get a bit
muddled with the books now and then.’</p>

<p>‘Well, thank you so much, I’ll send you down a cheque for
this.’</p>

<p>‘No, dear,’ said Lottie. ‘Suppose you write it down here.
Here’s the pen, here’s the ink, and here’s a blank cheque
book.’</p>

<p>(Bills are delivered infrequently and irregularly at Lottie’s,
but when they come, there is no getting away from
them.) Adam wrote out a cheque for seventy-eight pounds
sixteen shillings.</p>

<p>‘And twopence for the cheque,’ said Lottie.</p>

<p><i>And twopence</i>, Adam added.</p>

<p>‘There’s a dear,’ said Lottie, blotting the cheque and
locking it away in a drawer. ‘Why, look who’s turned up. If
it isn’t Mr Thingummy.’</p>

<p>It was Ginger.</p>

<p>‘Good morning, Mrs Crump,’ he said rather stiffly.</p>

<p>‘Come and sit down and have a glass of wine, dear. Why I
knew you before you were born.’</p>

<p>‘Hullo, Ginger,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘Look here, Symes,’ said Ginger, looking in an embarrassed
manner at the glass of champagne which had been
put into his hand, ‘I want to speak to you. Perhaps we can go
somewhere where we shan’t be disturbed.’</p>

<p>‘Bless you, boys, I won’t disturb you,’ said Lottie. ‘Just
you have a nice talk. I’ve got lots to see to.’</p>

<p>She left the parlour, and soon her voice could be heard
raised in anger against the Italian waiter.</p>

<p>‘Well?’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘Look here, Symes,’ said Ginger, ‘what I mean to say is,
what I’m going to say may sound damned unpleasant, you
know, and all that, but look here, you know, damn it, I
mean <i>the better man won</i>—not that I mean I’m the <i>better</i>
man. Wouldn’t say that for a minute. And, anyway, Nina’s
a damn sight too good for either of us. It’s just that I’ve been
lucky. Awful rough luck on you, I mean, and all that, but
still, when you come to think of it, after all, well, look here,
damn it, I mean, d’you see what I mean?’</p>

<p>‘Not quite,’ said Adam gently. ‘Now tell me again. Is it
something about Nina?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, it is,’ said Ginger in a rush. ‘Nina and I are engaged,
and I’m not going to have you butting in or there’ll be hell
to pay.’ He paused, rather taken aback at his own eloquence.</p>

<p>‘What makes you think I’m butting in?’</p>

<p>‘Well, hang it all, she dined with you last night, didn’t
she, and stayed out jolly late, too.’</p>

<p>‘How do you know how late she stayed out?’</p>

<p>‘Well, as a matter of fact, you see I wanted to speak to her
about something rather important, so I rang her up once or
twice and didn’t get an answer until three o’clock.’</p>

<p>‘I suppose you rang her up about every ten minutes?’</p>

<p>‘Oh no, damn it, not as often as that,’ said Ginger. ‘No,
no, not as often as that. I know it sounds rather unsporting
and all that, but you see I wanted to speak to her, and, anyway,
when I did get through, she just said she had a pain
and didn’t want to talk: <i>well, I mean to say</i>. After all, I
mean, one is a gentleman. It isn’t as though you were just a
sort of friend of the family, is it? I mean, you were more or
less engaged to her yourself, weren’t you, at one time?
Well, what would you have thought if I’d come butting in?
You must look at it like that, from my point of view, too,
mustn’t you, I mean?’</p>

<p>‘Well, I think that’s rather what did happen.’</p>

<p>‘Oh no, look here, Symes, I mean, damn it; you mustn’t
say things like that. D’you know all the time I was out East I
had Nina’s photograph over my bed, honest I did. I expect
you think that’s sentimental and all that, but what I mean
is I didn’t stop thinking of that girl once all the time I was
away. Mind you, there were lots of other frightfully jolly
girls out there, and I don’t say I didn’t sometimes get jolly
pally with them, you know, tennis and gymkhana and all
that sort of thing, I mean, and dancing in the evenings, but
never anything serious, you know. Nina was the only girl I
really thought of, and I’d sort of made up my mind when I
came home to look her up, and if she’d have me ... see
what I mean? So you see it’s awfully rough luck on me
when someone comes butting in. You must see that, don’t
you?’</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘And there’s another thing, you know, sentiment and all
that apart. I mean Nina’s a girl who likes nice clothes and
things, you know, comfort and all that. Well, I mean to say,
of course, her father’s a topping old boy, absolutely one of
the best, but he’s rather an ass about money, if you know
what I mean. What I mean, Nina’s going to be frightfully
hard up, and all that, and I mean you haven’t got an awful
lot of money, have you?’</p>

<p>‘I haven’t any at all.’</p>

<p>‘No, I mean, that’s what I mean. <i>Awfully rough on you.</i>
No one thinks the worse of you, respects you for it, I mean
earning a living and all that. Heaps of fellows haven’t any
money nowadays. I could give you the names of dozens of
stout fellows, absolute toppers, who simply haven’t a bean.
No, all I mean is, when it comes to marrying, then that does
make a difference, doesn’t it?’</p>

<p>‘What you’ve been trying to say all this time is that
you’re not sure of Nina?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, rot, my dear fellow, absolute bilge. Damn it, I’d
trust Nina anywhere, of course I would. After all, damn it,
what does being in love mean if you can’t trust a person?’</p>

<p>(‘What, indeed?’ thought Adam), and he said, ‘Now,
Ginger, tell the truth. What’s Nina worth to you?’</p>

<p>‘Good Lord, why what an extraordinary thing to ask;
everything in the world of course. I’d go through fire and
water for that girl.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I’ll sell her to you.’</p>

<p>‘No, why, look here, good God, damn it, I mean ...’</p>

<p>‘I’ll sell my share in her for a hundred pounds.’</p>

<p>‘You pretend to be fond of Nina and you talk about her
like that! Why, hang it, it’s not decent. Besides, a hundred
pounds is the deuce of a lot. I mean, getting married is a
damned expensive business, don’t you know. And I’m just
getting a couple of polo ponies over from Ireland. That’s
going to cost a hell of a lot, what with one thing and another.’</p>

<p>‘A hundred down, and I leave Nina to you, I think it’s
cheap.’</p>

<p>‘Fifty.’</p>

<p>‘A hundred.’</p>

<p>‘Seventy-five.’</p>

<p>‘A hundred.’</p>

<p>‘I’m damned if I’ll pay more than seventy-five.’</p>

<p>‘I’ll take seventy-eight pounds sixteen and twopence. I
can’t go lower than that.’</p>

<p>‘All right, I’ll pay that. <i>You really will go away?</i>’</p>

<p>‘I’ll try, Ginger. Have a drink.’</p>

<p>‘No, thank you ... this only shows what an escape Nina’s
had—poor little girl.’</p>

<p>‘Good-bye, Ginger.’</p>

<p>‘Good-bye, Symes.’</p>

<p>‘Young Thingummy going?’ said Lottie, appearing in the
door. ‘I was just thinking about a little drink.’</p>

<p>Adam went to the telephone-box....’Hullo, is that Nina?’</p>

<p>‘Who’s speaking, please? I don’t think Miss Blount is in.’</p>

<p>‘Mr Fenwick-Symes.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, Adam. I was afraid it was Ginger. I woke up feeling I
just couldn’t bear him. He rang up last night just as I got in.’</p>

<p>‘I know. Nina, darling, something awful’s happened.’</p>

<p>‘What?’</p>

<p>‘Lottie presented me with her bill.’</p>

<p>‘Darling, what <i>did</i> you do?’</p>

<p>‘Well, I did something rather extraordinary.... My
dear, I sold <i>you</i>.’</p>

<p>‘Darling ... <i>who to</i>?’</p>

<p>‘Ginger. You fetched seventy-eight pounds sixteen and
twopence.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Well?</i>’</p>

<p>‘And now I never am going to see you again.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, but Adam, I think this is beastly of you; I don’t want
not to see you again.’</p>

<p>‘I’m sorry.... Good-bye, Nina, darling.’</p>

<p>‘Good-bye, Adam, my sweet. But I think you’re rather a
cad.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Next day Lottie said to Adam, ‘You know that chap I said
came here asking for you?’</p>

<p>‘The dun?’</p>

<p>‘Well, he wasn’t a dun. I’ve just remembered. He’s a chap
who used to come here quite a lot until he had a fight with a
Canadian. He was here the night that silly Flossie killed
herself on the chandelier.’</p>

<p>‘Not the drunk Major?’</p>

<p>‘He wasn’t drunk yesterday. Not so as you’d notice anyway.
Red-faced chap with an eyeglass. You ought to remember
him, dear. He was the one made that bet for you on the
November Handicap.’</p>

<p>‘But I must get hold of him at once. What’s his name?’</p>

<p>‘Ah, that I couldn’t tell you. I <i>did</i> know, but it’s slipped
my memory. He’s gone to Manchester to look for you. Pity
your missing him!’</p>

<p>Then Adam rang up Nina. ‘Listen,’ he said. ‘Don’t do
anything sudden about Ginger. I may be able to buy you
back. The drunk Major has turned up again.’</p>

<p>‘But, darling, it’s too late. Ginger and I got married this
morning. I’m just packing for our honeymoon. We’re going
in an aeroplane.’</p>

<p>‘Ginger wasn’t taking any chances, was he? Darling,
don’t go.’</p>

<p>‘No, I must. Ginger says he knows a “tophole little spot not
far from Monte with a very decent nine-hole golf course”.’</p>

<p>‘<i>Well?</i>’</p>

<p>‘<i>Yes, I know</i> ... we shall only be away a few days. We’re
coming back to spend Christmas with papa. Perhaps we shall
be able to arrange something when we get back. I do hope so.’</p>

<p>‘Good-bye.’</p>

<p>‘Good-bye.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Ginger looked out of the aeroplane: ‘I say, Nina,’ he
shouted, ‘when you were young did you ever have to learn
a thing out of a poetry book about: “<span class='it'>This scepter’d isle, this
earth of majesty, this something or other Eden</span>”? D’you
know what I mean? “<span class='it'>this happy breed of men, this little
world, this precious stone set in the silver sea ...</span></p>


          <div class='poetry-container' style=''>
          <div class='lgp'>
<div class='stanza-outer'>
<p>“<i>This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England</i></p>
<p><i>This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings</i></p>
<p><i>Feared by their breed and famous by their birth ...</i>”</p>
</div>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>I forget how it goes on. Something about a stubborn Jew.
But you know the thing I mean?’</p>

<p>‘It comes in a play.’</p>

<p>‘No, a blue poetry book.’</p>

<p>‘I acted in it.’</p>

<p>‘Well, they may have put it into a play since. It was in a
blue poetry book when I learned it. Anyway, you know
what I mean?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, why?’</p>

<p>‘Well, I mean to say, don’t you feel somehow, up in the
air like this and looking down and seeing everything underneath.
I mean, don’t you have a sort of feeling rather like
that, if you see what I mean?’</p>

<p>Nina looked down and saw inclined at an odd angle a
horizon of straggling red suburb; arterial roads dotted with
little cars; factories, some of them working, others empty
and decaying; a disused canal; some distant hills sown with
bungalows; wireless masts and overhead power cables; men
and women were indiscernible except as tiny spots; they
were marrying and shopping and making money and having
children. The scene lurched and tilted again as the aeroplane
struck a current of air.</p>

<p>‘I think I’m going to be sick,’ said Nina.</p>

<p>‘Poor little girl,’ said Ginger. ‘That’s what the paper bags
are for.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>There was rarely more than a quarter of a mile of the
black road to be seen at one time. It unrolled like a length of
cinema film. At the edges was confusion; a fog spinning
past: ‘<i>Faster, faster</i>,’ they shouted above the roar of the
engine. The road rose suddenly and the white car soared up
the sharp ascent without slackening speed. At the summit of
the hill there was a corner. Two cars had crept up, one on
each side, and were closing in. ‘Faster,’ cried Miss Runcible,
‘Faster.’</p>

<p>‘Quietly, dear, quietly. You’re disturbing every one. You
must lie quiet or you’ll never get well. Everything’s quite
all right. There’s nothing to worry about. Nothing at all.’</p>

<p>They were trying to make her lie down. How could one
drive properly lying down?</p>

<p>Another frightful corner. The car leant over on two
wheels, tugging outwards; it was drawn across the road until
it was within a few inches of the bank. One ought to brake
down at the corners, but one couldn’t see them coming lying
flat on one’s back like this. The back wheels wouldn’t hold
the road at this speed. Skidding all over the place.</p>

<p>‘<i>Faster. Faster.</i>’</p>

<p>The stab of a hypodermic needle.</p>

<p>‘There’s nothing to worry about, dear ... <span class='it'>nothing at all
... nothing</span>.’</p>

<h2>Chapter Thirteen</h2>

<p>The film had been finished, and every one had gone away;
Wesley and Whitefield, Bishop Philpotts and Miss La
Touche, Mr Isaacs, and all his pupils from the National
Academy of Cinematographic Art. The park lay deep in
snow, a clean expanse of white, shadowless and unspotted
save for tiny broad arrows stamped by the hungry birds. The
bellringers were having their final practice, and the air was
alive with pealing bells.</p>

<p>Inside the dining-room Florin and Mrs Florin and Ada,
the fifteen-year-old housemaid, were arranging branches of
holly above the frames of the family portraits. Florin held
the basket, Mrs Florin held the steps and Ada put the
decorations in their places. Colonel Blount was having his
afternoon nap upstairs.</p>

<p>Florin had a secret. It was a white calico banner of great
age lettered in red ribbon with the words ‘<span class='sc'>Welcome
Home</span>’. He had always known where it was, just where to
put his hand on it, at the top of the black trunk in the far
attic behind the two hip baths and the ’cello case.</p>

<p>‘The Colonel’s mother made it’, he explained, ‘when he
first went away to school, and it was always hung out in the
hall whenever he and Mister Eric came back for the holidays.
It used to be the first thing he’d look for when he came
into the house—even when he was a grown man home on
leave. “Where’s my banner?” he’d say. We’ll have it up for
Miss Nina—Mrs Littlejohn, I should say.’</p>

<p>Ada said should they put some holly in Captain and Mrs
Littlejohn’s bedroom.</p>

<p>Mrs Florin said, whoever heard of holly in a bedroom,
and she wasn’t sure but that it was unlucky to take it upstairs.</p>

<p>Ada said, ‘Well, perhaps just a bit of mistletoe over the
bed.’</p>

<p>Mrs Florin said Ada was too young to think about things
like that, and she ought to be ashamed of herself.</p>

<p>Florin said would Ada stop arguing and answering back
and come into the hall to put up the banner. One string
went on the nose of the rhinoceros, he explained, the other
round the giraffe.</p>

<p>Presently Colonel Blount came down.</p>

<p>‘Should I light the fires in the big drawing-room?’ asked
Mrs Florin.</p>

<p>‘Fires in the big drawing-room? No, why should you want
to do that, Mrs Florin?’</p>

<p>‘Because of Captain and Mrs Littlejohn—you haven’t
forgotten, have you, sir, that they’re coming to stay this
afternoon?’</p>

<p>‘Captain and Mrs Fiddlesticks. Never heard of them.
Who asked them to stay I should like to know? <i>I</i> didn’t.
Don’t know who they are. Don’t want them.... Besides,
now I come to think of it, Miss Nina and her husband said
they were coming down. I can’t have the whole house
turned into an hotel. If these people come, Florin, whoever
they are, you tell them to go away. You understand? I
won’t have them, and I think it’s very presumptuous of
whoever asked them. It is not their place to invite guests
here without consulting me.’</p>

<p>‘Should I be lighting the fires in the big drawing-room
for Miss Nina and her young gentleman, sir?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, yes, certainly ... and a fire in their bedroom, of
course. And, Florin, I want you to come down to the cellar
with me to look out some port ... I’ve got the keys here.
... I have a feeling I’m going to like Miss Nina’s husband,’
he confided on their way to the cellar. ‘I hear very good
reports of him—a decent, steady young fellow, and not at all
badly off. Miss Nina said in her letter that he used to come
over here as a little boy. D’you remember him, Florin?
Blest if I do.... What’s the name again?’</p>

<p>‘Littlejohn, sir.’</p>

<p>‘Yes. Littlejohn, to be sure. I had the name on the tip of my
tongue only a minute ago. <i>Littlejohn.</i> I must remember that.’</p>

<p>‘His father used to live over at Oakshott, sir. A very
wealthy gentleman. Shipowners, I think they were. Young
Mr Littlejohn used to go riding with Miss Nina, sir.
Regular little monkey he was, sir, red-headed ... a terrible
one for cats.’</p>

<p>‘Well, well, I dare say he’s grown out of that. Mind the
step, Florin, it’s all broken away. Hold the lamp higher,
can’t you, man. Now, what did we come for? Port, yes, port.
Now, there’s some ’96 somewhere, only a few bottles left.
What does it say on this bin? I can’t read. Bring the light
over here.’</p>

<p>‘We drank up the last of the ’96, sir, when the film-acting
gentlemen was here.’</p>

<p>‘Did we, Florin, did we? We shouldn’t have done that,
you know.’</p>

<p>‘Very particular about his wine, Mr Isaacs was. My instructions
was to give them whatever they wanted.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, but ’96 port.... Well, well. Take up two bottles
of the ’04. Now, what else do we want? Claret—yes, <i>claret</i>.
Claret, claret, claret, claret. Where do I keep the claret,
Florin?’</p>

<hr/>

<p>Colonel Blount was just having tea—he had finished a
brown boiled egg and was spreading a crumpet with honey—when
Florin opened the library door and announced ‘Captain
and Mrs Littlejohn, sir.’</p>

<p>And Adam and Nina came in.</p>

<p>Colonel Blount put down his crumpet and rose to greet them.</p>

<p>‘Well, Nina, it’s a long time since you came to see your
old father. So this is my son-in-law, eh? How do you do, my
boy. Come and sit down, both of you. Florin will bring some
more cups directly.... Well,’ he said, giving Adam a
searching glance, ‘I can’t say I should have recognized you. I
used to know your father very well indeed at one time. Used
to be a neighbour of mine over at where-was-it. I expect
you’ve forgotten those days. You used to come over here to
ride with Nina. You can’t have been more than ten or
eleven.... Funny, something gave me an idea you had red
hair ...’</p>

<p>‘I expect you’d heard him called “Ginger”,’ said Nina,
‘and that made you think of it.’</p>

<p>‘Something of the kind, I dare say ... extraordinary
thing to call him “Ginger” when he’s got ordinary fair hair
... anyway, I’m very glad to see you, very glad. I’m afraid
it’ll be a very quiet week-end. We don’t see many people
here now. Florin says he’s asked a Captain and Mrs Something-or-other
to come and stay, damn his impudence, but I
said I wouldn’t see them. Why should I entertain Florin’s
friends? Servants seem to think after they’ve been with you
some time they can do anything they like. There was poor
old Lady Graybridge, now—they only found out after her
death that her man had been letting lodgings all the time in
the North Wing. She never could understand why none of
the fruit ever came into the dining-room—the butler and
his boarders were eating it all in the servants’ hall. And after
she was ill, and couldn’t leave her room, he laid out a golf links
in the park ... shocking state of affairs. I don’t believe Florin
would do a thing like that—still, you never know. It’s the thin
edge of the wedge asking people down for the week-end.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>In the kitchen Florin said: ‘<i>That’s</i> not the Mr Littlejohn I
used to know.’</p>

<p>Mrs Florin said, ‘It’s the young gentleman that came here
to luncheon last month.’</p>

<p>Ada said, ‘He’s very nice looking.’</p>

<p>Florin and Mrs Florin said, ‘You be quiet, Ada. Have you
taken the hot water up to their bedroom yet? Have you
taken up their suitcases? Have you unpacked them? Did you
brush the Colonel’s evening suit? Do you expect Mr Florin
and Mrs Florin to do <i>all</i> the work of the house? And look at
your apron again, you wretched girl, if it isn’t the second
you’ve dirtied to-day.’</p>

<p>Florin added, ‘Anyway, Miss Nina noticed the banner.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>In the library Colonel Blount said, ‘I’ve got a treat for you
to-night, anyway. The last two reels of my cinema film have
just come back from being developed. I thought we’d run
through it to-night. We shall have to go across to the Rectory,
because the rector’s got electric light, the lucky fellow. I
told him to expect us. He didn’t seem very pleased about it.
Said he had to preach three sermons to-morrow, and be up
at six for early service. That’s not the Christmas spirit.
Didn’t want to bring the car round to fetch us either. It’s
only a matter of a quarter of a mile, no trouble to <i>him</i>, and
how can we walk in the snow carrying all the apparatus? I
said to him, “If you practised a little more Christianity yourself
we might be more willing to subscribe to your foreign
missions and Boy Scouts and organ funds.” Had him there.
Dammit, I put the man in his job myself—if I haven’t a
right to his car, who has?’</p>

<p>When they went up to change for dinner Nina said to
Adam, ‘I knew papa would never recognize you.’</p>

<p>Adam said, ‘Look, some one’s put mistletoe over our bed.’</p>

<p>‘I think you gave the Florins rather a surprise.’</p>

<p>‘My dear, what will the Rector say? He drove me to the
station the first time I came. He thought I was mad.’</p>

<p>‘... Poor Ginger. I wonder, are we treating him terribly
badly? ... It seemed a direct act of fate that he should have
been called up to join his regiment just at this moment.’</p>

<p>‘I left him a cheque to pay for you.’</p>

<p>‘Darling, you know it’s a bad one.’</p>

<p>‘No cheque is bad until it’s refused by the bank. To-morrow’s
Christmas, then Boxing Day, then Sunday. He
can’t pay it in until Monday, and anything may have happened
by then. The drunk Major may have turned up. If the
worst comes to the worst I can always send you back to him.’</p>

<p>‘I expect it will end with that.... Darling, the honeymoon
<i>was</i> hell ... frightfully cold, and Ginger insisted on
walking about on a terrace after dinner to see the moon on
the Mediterranean—he played golf all day, and made
friends with the other English people in the hotel. I can’t
tell you what it was like ... too spirit-crushing, as poor
Agatha used to say.’</p>

<p>‘Did I tell you I went to Agatha’s funeral? There was practically
no one there except the Chasms and some aunts. I
went with Van, rather tight, and got stared at. I think they
felt I was partly responsible for the accident ...’</p>

<p>‘What about Miles?’</p>

<p>‘He’s had to leave the country, didn’t you know?’</p>

<p>‘Darling, I only came back from my honeymoon to-day. I
haven’t heard anything.... You know there seems to be
none of us left now except you and me.’</p>

<p>‘And Ginger.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, and Ginger.’</p>

<hr/>

<p>The cinematograph exhibition that evening was not really
a success.</p>

<p>The Rector arrived while they were finishing dinner, and
was shown into the dining-room shaking the snow from the
shoulders of his overcoat.</p>

<p>‘Come in, Rector, come in. We shan’t be many
minutes now. Take a glass of port and sit down. You’ve
met my daughter, haven’t you? And this is my new son-in-law.’</p>

<p>‘I think I’ve had the pleasure of meeting him before too.’</p>

<p>‘Nonsense, first time he’s been here since he was so high—long
before your time.’</p>

<p>The Rector sipped his port and kept eyeing Adam over the
top of his glass in a way which made Nina giggle. Then
Adam giggled too, and the Rector’s suspicions were confirmed.
In this way relations were already on an uneasy
basis before they reached the Rectory. The Colonel, however,
was far too intent over the transport of his apparatus to
notice anything.</p>

<p>‘This is your first visit here?’ said the Rector as he drove
through the snow.</p>

<p>‘I lived near here as a boy, you know,’ said Adam.</p>

<p>‘Ah ... but you were down here the other day, were you
not? The Colonel often forgets things....’</p>

<p>‘No, no. I haven’t been here for fifteen years.’</p>

<p>‘I <i>see</i>,’ said the Rector with sinister emphasis, and murmured
under his breath, ‘Remarkable ... very sad and remarkable.’</p>

<p>The Rector’s wife was disposed to make rather a party of
it, and had arranged some coffee and chocolate biscuits in the
drawing-room, but the Colonel soon put an end to any
frivolity of this kind by plunging them all in darkness.</p>

<p>He took out the bulbs of their electric lights and fitted in
the plug of his lantern. A bright beam shot across the
drawing-room like a searchlight, picking out the Rector,
who was whispering in his wife’s ear the news of his discovery.</p>

<p>‘... the same young man I told you of,’ he was saying.
‘Quite off his head, poor boy. He didn’t even remember
coming here before. One expects that sort of thing in a man
of the Colonel’s age, but for a young man like that ... a
very bad look out for the next generation ...’</p>

<p>The Colonel paused in his preparation.</p>

<p>‘I say, Rector, I’ve just thought of something. I wish old
Florin were here. He was in bed half the time they were
taking the film. I know he’d love to see it. Could you be a
good chap and run up in the car and fetch him?’</p>

<p>‘No, really, Colonel, I hardly think that’s necessary. I’ve
just put the car away.’</p>

<p>‘I won’t start before you come back, if that’s what you’re
thinking of. It’ll take me some time to get everything fixed
up. We’ll wait for you. I promise you that.’</p>

<p>‘My dear Colonel, it’s snowing heavily—practically a blizzard.
Surely it would be a mistaken kindness to drag an
elderly man out of doors on a night like this in order to see a
film which, I have no doubt, will soon be on view all over
the country?’</p>

<p>‘All right, Rector, just as you think best. I only thought
after all it is Christmas ... damn the thing; I got a nasty
shock then.’</p>

<p>Adam and Nina and the Rector and his wife sat in the
dark patiently. After a time the Colonel unrolled a silvered
screen.</p>

<p>‘Just help me take all these things off the chimney-piece
some one,’ he said.</p>

<p>The Rector’s wife scuttered to the preservation of her
ornaments.</p>

<p>‘Will it bear, do you think?’ asked the Colonel, mounting
precariously on the top of the piano, and exhibiting in his
excitement an astonishing fund of latent vitality. ‘Now hand
up the screen to me, will you? That’s splendid. You don’t
mind a couple of screws in your wall, do you, Rector? Quite
small ones.’</p>

<p>Presently the screen was fixed and the lens directed so
that it threw on to it a small square of light.</p>

<p>The audience sat down expectantly.</p>

<p>‘<i>Now</i>,’ said the Colonel, and set the machine in motion.</p>

<p>There was a whirring sound, and suddenly there appeared
on the screen the spectacle of four uniformed horsemen
galloping backwards down the drive.</p>

<p>‘Hullo,’ said the Colonel. ‘Something wrong there ...
that’s funny. I must have forgotten to rewind it.’</p>

<p>The horsemen disappeared, and there was a fresh whirring
as the film was transferred to another spool.</p>

<p>‘<i>Now</i>,’ said the Colonel, and sure enough there appeared
in small and clear letters the notice, ‘<span class='sc'>The Wonderfilm
Company of Great Britain Presents</span>’. This legend,
vibrating a good deal, but without other variation, filled the
screen for some time—(‘Of course, I shall cut the captions a
bit before it’s shown commercially,’ explained the Colonel)—until
its place was taken by ‘<span class='sc'>Effie la Touche in</span>’.
This announcement was displayed for practically no time at
all; indeed, they had scarcely had time to read it before it
was whisked away obliquely. (‘Damn,’ said the Colonel.
‘Skidded.’) There followed another long pause, and then:</p>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p>‘<span class='sc'><span class='gesp'>A Brand from the Burning, a Film Based on the Life of John Wesley.</span></span>’</p>

<p>(‘<i>There</i>,’ said the Colonel.)</p>

<p>‘<span class='sc'><span class='gesp'>Eighteenth Century England.</span></span>’</p>

</div>

<p>There came in breathless succession four bewigged men in
fancy costume, sitting round a card table. There were
glasses, heaps of money and candles on the table. They were
clearly gambling feverishly and drinking a lot. (‘There’s a
song there really,’ said the Colonel, ‘only I’m afraid I
haven’t got a talkie apparatus yet.’) Then a highwayman
holding up the coach which Adam had seen; then some
beggars starving outside Doubting Church; then some ladies
in fancy costume dancing a minuet. Sometimes the heads of
the dancers would disappear above the top of the pictures;
sometimes they would sink waist deep as though in a quicksand;
once Mr Isaacs appeared at the side in shirt sleeves,
waving them on. (‘I’ll have him out,’ said the Colonel.)</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:center;margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;'>‘<span class='sc'><span class='gesp'>Epworth Rectory, Lincolnshire (Eng.)</span></span>’</p>

<p>(‘That’s in case it’s taken up in the States,’ said the
Colonel. ‘I don’t believe there is a Lincolnshire over there,
but it’s always courteous to put that in case.’)</p>

<p>A corner of Doubting Hall appeared with clouds of smoke
billowing from the windows. A clergyman was seen handing
out a succession of children with feverish rapidity of action.
(‘It’s on fire, you see,’ said the Colonel. ‘We did that quite
simply, by burning some stuff Isaacs had. It did make a
smell.’)</p>

<p>So the film went on eventfully for about half an hour.
One of its peculiarities was that whenever the story reached
a point of dramatic and significant action, the film seemed
to get faster and faster. Villagers trotted to church as though
galvanized; lovers shot in and out of windows; horses flashed
past like motor cars; riots happened so quickly that they
were hardly noticed. On the other hand, any scene of repose
or inaction, a conversation in a garden between two clergymen,
Mrs Wesley at her prayers, Lady Huntingdon asleep,
etc., seemed prolonged almost unendurably. Even Colonel
Blount suspected this imperfection.</p>

<p>‘I think I might cut a bit there,’ he said, after Wesley
had sat uninterruptedly composing a pamphlet for four and
a half minutes.</p>

<p>When the reel came to an end every one stirred luxuriously.</p>

<p>‘Well, that was very nice,’ said the Rector’s wife, ‘very
nice and instructive.’</p>

<p>‘I really must congratulate you, Colonel. A production of
absorbing interest. I had no idea Wesley’s life was so full of
adventure. I see I must read up my Lecky.’</p>

<p>‘Too divine, Papa.’</p>

<p>‘Thank you so much, sir, I enjoyed that immensely.’</p>

<p>‘But, bless you, that isn’t the end,’ said the Colonel.
‘There are four more reels yet.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, that’s good.’ ‘But how delightful.’ ‘Splendid.’ ‘Oh.’</p>

<p>But the full story was never shown. Just at the beginning
of the second part—when Wesley in America was being
rescued from Red Indians by Lady Huntingdon disguised as
a cowboy—there occurred one of the mishaps from which
the largest super-cinemas are not absolutely immune. There
was a sudden crackling sound, a long blue spark, and the
light was extinguished.</p>

<p>‘Oh, dear,’ said the Colonel, ‘I wonder what’s happened
now. We were just getting to such an exciting place.’ He
bent all his energies on the apparatus, recklessly burning
his fingers, while his audience sat in darkness. Presently
the door opened and a housemaid appeared carrying a
candle.</p>

<p>‘If you please, mum,’ she said, ‘the light’s gone out all
over the house.’</p>

<p>The Rector hurried across to the door and tried the
switch in the passage. He clicked it up and down several
times; he tapped it like a barometer and shook it
slightly.</p>

<p>‘It looks as though the wires were fused,’ he said.</p>

<p>‘Really, Rector, how very inconvenient,’ said the Colonel
crossly. ‘I can’t possibly show the film without electric
current. Surely there must be something you can do?’</p>

<p>‘I am afraid it will be a job for an electrician; it will be
scarcely possible to get one before Monday,’ said the Rector
with scarcely Christian calm. ‘In fact it is clear to me that
my wife and myself and my whole household will have to
spend the entire Christmas week-end in darkness.’</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said the Colonel. ‘I never expected this to happen.
Of course, I know it’s just as disappointing for you as it is for
me. All the same ...’</p>

<p>The housemaid brought in some candles and a bicycle
lamp.</p>

<p>‘There’s only these in the house, sir,’ she said, ‘and the
shops don’t open till Monday.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t think in the circumstances my hospitality can be
of much more use to you, can it, Colonel? Perhaps you would
like me to ring up and get a taxi out from Aylesbury.’</p>

<p>‘What’s that? <i>Taxi?</i> Why, it’s ridiculous to get a taxi out
from Aylesbury to go a quarter of a mile!’</p>

<p>‘I’m sure Mrs Littlejohn wouldn’t like to walk all the way
on a night like this?’</p>

<p>‘Perhaps a taxi would be a good idea, Papa.’</p>

<p>‘Of course, if you’ld care to take shelter here ... it may
clear up a little. But I think you’ld find it very wretched,
sitting here in the dark?’</p>

<p>‘No, no, of course, order a taxi,’ said the Colonel.</p>

<p>On the way back to the house he said, ‘I’d half made up
my mind to lend him some of our lamps for the week-end.
I certainly shan’t now. Fancy hiring a taxi seven miles to
drive us a few hundred yards. On Christmas Eve, too. No
wonder they find it hard to fill their churches when that’s
their idea of Christian fellowship. Just when I’d brought my
film all that way to show them ...’</p>

<p>Next morning Adam and Nina woke up under Ada’s sprig
of mistletoe to hear the bells ringing for Christmas across
the snow. ‘Come all to church, good people; good people
come to church.’ They had each hung up a stocking the
evening before, and Adam had put a bottle of scent and a
scent spray into Nina’s, and she had put two ties and a new
kind of safety razor into his. Ada brought them their tea and
wished them a happy Christmas. Nina had remembered to
get a present for each of the Florins, but had forgotten Ada,
so she gave her the bottle of scent.</p>

<p>‘Darling,’ said Adam, ‘it cost twenty-five shillings—on
Archie Schwert’s account at Asprey.’</p>

<p>Later they put some crumbs of their bread and butter on
the windowsill and a robin redbreast came to eat them. The
whole day was like that.</p>

<p>Adam and Nina breakfasted alone in the dining-room.
There was a row of silver plates kept hot by spirit lamps
which held an omelette and devilled partridges and kedgeree
and kidneys and sole and some rolls; there was also a ham
and a tongue and some brawn and a dish of pickled herrings.
Nina ate an apple and Adam ate some toast.</p>

<p>Colonel Blount came down at eleven wearing a grey tail
coat. He wished them a very good morning and they exchanged
gifts. Adam gave him a box of cigars; Nina gave him
a large illustrated book about modern cinema production; he
gave Nina a seed pearl brooch which had belonged to her
mother, and he gave Adam a calendar with a coloured picture
of a bulldog smoking a clay pipe and a thought from
Longfellow for each day in the year.</p>

<p>At half-past eleven they all went to Matins.</p>

<p>‘It will be a lesson to him in true Christian forgiveness,’
said the Colonel (but he ostentatiously read his Bible
throughout the sermon). After church they called in at two
or three cottages. Florin had been round the day before
distributing parcels of grocery. They were all pleased and
interested to meet Miss Nina’s husband. Many of them
remembered him as a little boy, and remarked that he had
grown out of all recognition. They reminded him with
relish of many embarrassing episodes in Ginger’s childhood,
chiefly acts of destruction and cruelty to cats.</p>

<hr/>

<p>After luncheon they went down to see all the decorations
in the servants’ hall.</p>

<p>This was a yearly custom of some antiquity, and the
Florins had prepared for it by hanging paper streamers from
the gas brackets. Ada was having middle-day dinner with
her parents who lived among the petrol pumps at Doubting
village, so the Florins ate their turkey and plum pudding
alone.</p>

<p>‘I’ve seen as many as twenty-five sitting down to
Christmas dinner at this table,’ said Florin. ‘Regular parties
they used to have when the Colonel and Mr Eric were boys.
Theatricals and all the house turned topsy-turvy, and every
gentleman with his own valet.’</p>

<p>‘Ah,’ said Mrs Florin.</p>

<p>‘Times is changed,’ said Florin, picking a tooth.</p>

<p>‘Ah,’ said Mrs Florin.</p>

<p>Then the family came in from the dining-room.</p>

<p>The Colonel knocked on the door and said, ‘May we come
in, Mrs Florin?’</p>

<p>‘That you may, sir, and welcome,’ said Mrs Florin.</p>

<p>Then Adam and Nina and the Colonel admired the
decorations and handed over their presents wrapped in tissue
paper. Then the Colonel said, ‘I think we should take a glass
of wine together.’</p>

<p>Florin opened a bottle of sherry which he had brought up
that morning and poured out the glasses, handing one first
to Nina, then to Mrs Florin, then to the Colonel, then to
Adam, and, finally, taking one for himself.</p>

<p>‘My very best wishes to you, Mrs Florin,’ said the Colonel,
raising his glass, ‘and to you, Florin. The years go by, and
we none of us get any younger, but I hope and trust that
there are many Christmases in store for us yet. Mrs Florin
certainly doesn’t look a day older than when she first came
here. My best wishes to you both for another year of health
and happiness.’</p>

<p>Mrs Florin said, ‘Best respects, sir, and thank you, sir,
and the same to you.’</p>

<p>Florin said, ‘And a great pleasure it is to see Miss Nina—Mrs
Littlejohn, I should say—with us once more at her old
home, and her husband too, and I’m sure Mrs Florin and me
wish them every happiness and prosperity in their married
life together, and all I can say, if they can be as happy together
as me and Mrs Florin has been, well, that’s the best I
can wish them.’</p>

<p>Then the family went away, and the house settled down
to its afternoon nap.</p>

<hr/>

<p>After dinner that night Adam and the Colonel filled up
their port glasses and turned their chairs towards the fire.
Nina had gone into the drawing-room to smoke.</p>

<p>‘You know,’ said the Colonel, poking back a log with his
foot, ‘I’m very glad that Nina has married you, my boy. I’ve
liked you from the moment I saw you. She’s a headstrong
girl—always was—but I knew that she’d make a sensible
choice in the end. I foresee a very agreeable life ahead of
you two young people.’</p>

<p>‘I hope so, sir.’</p>

<p>‘I’m sure of it, my boy. She’s very nearly made several
mistakes. There was an ass of a fellow here the other day
wanting to marry her. A journalist. Awful silly fellow. He
told me my old friend Canon Chatterbox was working on
his paper. Well, I didn’t like to contradict him—he ought
to have known, after all—but I thought it was funny at the
time, and then, d’you know, after he’d gone I was going
through some old papers upstairs and I came on a cutting
from the <i>Worcester Herald</i> describing his funeral. He died
in 1912. Well, he must have been a muddle-headed sort of
fellow to make a mistake like that, mustn’t he? ... Have
some port?’</p>

<p>‘Thank you.’</p>

<p>‘Then there was another chap. Came here selling vacuum
cleaners, if you please, and asked me to give him a thousand
pounds! Impudent young cub. I soon sent him about his
business.... But you’re different, Littlejohn. Just the sort
of son-in-law I’d have chosen for myself. Your marriage has
been a great happiness to me, my boy.’</p>

<p>At this moment Nina came in to say that there were carol
singers outside the drawing-room window.</p>

<p>‘Bring ’em in,’ said the Colonel. ‘Bring ’em in. They
come every year. And tell Florin to bring up the punch.’</p>

<p>Florin brought up the punch in a huge silver punch bowl
and Nina brought in the waits. They stood against the sideboard,
caps in hand, blinking in the gaslight, and very red
about the nose and cheeks with the sudden warmth.</p>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p>‘<i>Oh, tidings of comfort and joy</i>,’ they sang, ‘<span class='it'>comfort and joy,
Oh, tidings of comfort and joy</span>.’</p>

</div>

<p>They sang <i>Good King Wenceslas</i>, and <i>The First Noel</i>, and
<i>Adeste Fideles</i>, and <i>While Shepherds Watched Their Flocks</i>.
Then Florin ladled out the punch, seeing that the younger
ones did not get the glasses intended for their elders, but
that each, according to his capacity, got a little more, but
not much more, than was good for him.</p>

<p>The Colonel tasted the punch and pronounced it excellent.
He then asked the carol singers their names and where they
came from, and finally gave their leader five shillings and
sent them off into the snow.</p>

<p>‘It’s been just like this every year, as long as I can remember,’
said the Colonel. ‘We always had a party at
Christmas when we were boys ... acted some very amusing
charades too ... always a glass of sherry after luncheon in
the servants’ hall and carol singers in the evening....
Tell me,’ he said, suddenly changing the subject, ‘did you
<i>really</i> like what you saw of the film yesterday?’</p>

<p>‘It was the most divine film I ever saw, Papa.’</p>

<p>‘I enjoyed it enormously, sir, really I did.’</p>

<p>‘Did you? Did you? Well, I’m glad to hear that. I don’t
believe the Rector did—not properly. Of course, you only
saw a bit of it, most disappointing. I didn’t like to say so at
the time, but I thought it most negligent of him to have his
electric light in that sort of condition so that it wouldn’t last
out for one evening. Most inconsiderate to any one who
wants to show a film. But it’s a glorious film, isn’t it? You
did think so?’</p>

<p>‘I never enjoyed a film so much, honestly.’</p>

<p>‘It makes a stepping stone in the development of the
British film industry,’ said the Colonel dreamily. ‘It is the
most important all-talkie super-religious film to be produced
solely in this country by British artists and management
and by British capital. It has been directed throughout
regardless of difficulty and expense, and supervised by a staff
of expert historians and theologians. Nothing has been
omitted that would contribute to the meticulous accuracy of
every detail. The life of that great social and religious
reformer John Wesley is for the first time portrayed to a
British public in all its humanity and tragedy.... I’m glad
you realized all that, my boy, because as a matter of fact, I
had a proposal to make to you about it. I’m getting an old
man and can’t do everything, and I feel my services should
be better spent in future as actor and producer, rather than
on the commercial side. One needs some one young to
manage that. Now what I thought was, that perhaps you
would care to come in with me as business partner. I
bought the whole thing from Isaacs and, as you’re one of the
family, I shouldn’t mind selling you a half-share for, say,
two thousand pounds. I know that that isn’t much to you,
and you’ld be humanly certain to double your money in a
few months. What do you say to it?’</p>

<p>‘<i>Well</i> ...’ said Adam.</p>

<p>But he was never called upon to answer, for just at that
moment the door of the dining-room opened and the Rector
came in.</p>

<p>‘Hullo, Rector, come in. This is very neighbourly of you
to come and call at this time of night. A happy Christmas to
you.’</p>

<p>‘Colonel Blount, I’ve got very terrible news. I had to come
over and tell you ...’</p>

<p>‘I say, I am sorry. Nothing wrong at the Rectory, I hope?’</p>

<p>‘Worse, far worse. My wife and I were sitting over the
fire after dinner, and as we couldn’t read—not having any
light—we put on the wireless. They were having a very
pretty carol service. Suddenly they stopped in the middle
and a special news bulletin was read.... Colonel, the most
terrible and unexpected thing—<i>War has been declared</i>.’</p>

<h2>Happy Ending</h2>

<p>On a splintered tree stump in the biggest battlefield in
the history of the world, Adam sat down and read a letter
from Nina. It had arrived early the day before, but in the
intensive fighting which followed he had not had a spare
minute in which to open it.</p>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:3em;'><i>Doubting Hall</i>,</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'><i>Aylesbury</i>.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Dearest Adam,—I wonder how you are. It is difficult to
know what is happening quite because the papers say such odd
things. Van has got a divine job making up all the war news,
and he invented a lovely story about you the other day, how
you’d saved hundreds of people’s lives, and there’s what they
call a popular agitation saying why haven’t you got the
V.C., so probably you will have by now, isn’t it amusing?</span></p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Ginger and I are very well. Ginger has a job in an office in
Whitehall and wears a very grand sort of uniform, and, my
dear, I’m going to have a baby, isn’t it too awful? But Ginger
has quite made up his mind it’s his, and is as pleased as anything,
so that’s all right. He’s quite forgiven you about last
Christmas, and says anyway you’re doing your bit now, and
in war time one lets bygones be bygones.</span></p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Doubting is a hospital, did you know? Papa shows his film
to the wounded and they adore it. I saw Mr Benfleet, and he
said how awful it was when one had given all one’s life in the
cause of culture to see everything one’s stood for swept away,
but he’s doing very well with his “Sword Unsheathed” series
of war poets.</span></p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>There’s a new Government order that we have to sleep in
gas masks because of the bombs, but no one does. They’ve put
Archie in prison as an undesirable alien, Ginger saw to that,
he’s terrific about spies. I’m sick such a lot because of this
baby, but everyone says it’s patriotic to have babies in war
time. Why?</span></p>

<p>‘<i>Lots of love, my angel, take care of your dear self.</i></p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'><i>N.</i>’</p>

</div>

<p>He put it back in its envelope and buttoned it into his
breast-pocket. Then he took out a pipe, filled it and began to
smoke. The scene all round him was one of unrelieved
desolation; a great expanse of mud in which every visible
object was burnt or broken. Sounds of firing thundered
from beyond the horizon, and somewhere above the grey
clouds there were aeroplanes. He had had no sleep for
thirty-six hours. It was growing dark.</p>

<p>Presently he became aware of a figure approaching,
painfully picking his way among the strands of barbed wire
which strayed across the ground like drifting cobweb; a
soldier clearly. As he came nearer Adam saw that he was
levelling towards him a liquid fire-projector. Adam tightened
his fingers about his Huxdane-Halley bomb (for the
dissemination of leprosy germs), and in this posture of
mutual suspicion they met. Through the dusk Adam recognized
the uniform of an English staff officer. He put the
bomb back in his pocket and saluted.</p>

<p>The newcomer lowered his liquid-fire projector and raised
his gas mask. ‘You’re English, are you?’ he said. ‘Can’t see a
thing. Broken my damned monocle.’</p>

<p>‘Why,’ said Adam. ‘You’re the drunk Major.’</p>

<p>‘I’m not drunk, damn you, sir,’ said the drunk Major,
‘and, what’s more, I’m a General. What the deuce are <i>you</i>
doing here?’</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said Adam. ‘I’ve lost my platoon.’</p>

<p>‘Lost your platoon.... I’ve lost my whole bloody division!’</p>

<p>‘Is the battle over, sir?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know, can’t see a thing. It was going on all right
last time I heard of it. My car’s broken down somewhere
over there. My driver went out to try and find some one to
help and got lost, and I went out to look for him, and now
I’ve lost the car too. Damn difficult country to find one’s
way about in. No landmarks.... Funny meeting you. I
owe you some money.’</p>

<p>‘Thirty-five thousand pounds.’</p>

<p>‘Thirty-five thousand and five. Looked for you everywhere
before this scrap started. I can give you the money
now if you like.’</p>

<p>‘The pound’s not worth much nowadays, is it?’</p>

<p>‘About nothing. Still, I may as well give you a cheque.
It’ll buy you a couple of drinks and a newspaper. Talking of
drinks, I’ve got a case of bubbly in the car if we could only
find it. Salvaged it out of an R.A.F. mess that got bombed
back at H.Q. Wish I could find that car.’</p>

<p>Eventually they did find it. A Daimler limousine sunk to
the axles in mud.</p>

<p>‘Get in and sit down,’ said the General hospitably. ‘I’ll
turn the light on in a second.’</p>

<p>Adam climbed in and found that it was not empty. In
the corner, crumpled up in a French military greatcoat, was
a young woman fast asleep.</p>

<p>‘<i>Hullo</i>, I’d forgotten all about you,’ said the General. ‘I
picked up this little lady on the road. I can’t introduce you,
because I don’t know her name. Wake up, mademoiselle.’</p>

<p>The girl gave a little cry and opened two startled
eyes.</p>

<p>‘That’s all right, little lady, nothing to be scared about—all
friends here. <i>Parlez anglais?</i>’</p>

<p>‘Sure,’ said the girl.</p>

<p>‘Well, what about a spot?’ said the General, peeling the
tinfoil from the top of a bottle. ‘You’ll find some glasses in
the locker.’</p>

<p>The woebegone fragment of womanhood in the corner
looked a little less terrified when she saw the wine. She
recognized it as the symbol of international good will.</p>

<p>‘Now perhaps our fair visitor will tell us her name,’ said
the General.</p>

<p>‘I dunno,’ she said.</p>

<p>‘Oh, come, little one, you mustn’t be shy.’</p>

<p>‘I dunno. I been called a lot of things. I was called Chastity
once. Then there was a lady at a party, and she sent me
to Buenos Aires, and then when the war came she brought
me back again, and I was with the soldiers training at
Salisbury Plain. That was swell. They called me bunny—I
don’t know why. Then they sent me over here and I was
with the Canadians, what they called me wasn’t nice, and
then they left me behind when they retreated and I took up
with some foreigners. They were nice too, though they <i>were</i>
fighting against the English. Then <i>they</i> ran away, and the
lorry I was in got stuck in the ditch, so I got in with some
other foreigners who were on the same side as the English,
and they were beasts, but I met an American doctor who
had white hair, and he called me Emily because he said I
reminded him of his daughter back home, so he took me to
Paris and we had a lovely week till he took up with another
girl in a night club, so he left me behind in Paris when he
went back to the front, and I hadn’t no money and they
made a fuss about my passport, so they called me <span class='it'>numero
mille soixante dix huit</span>, and they sent me and a lot of other
girls off to the East to be with the soldiers there. At least
they would have done only the ship got blown up, so I was
rescued and the French sent me up here in a train with some
different girls who were very unrefined. Then I was in a tin
hut with the girls, and then yesterday they had friends and
I was alone, so I went for a walk, and when I came back the
hut was gone and the girls were gone, and there didn’t seem
any one anywhere until you came in your car, and now I
don’t rightly know where I am. <i>My</i>, isn’t war awful?’</p>

<p>The General opened another bottle of champagne.</p>

<p>‘Well, you’re as right as rain now, little lady,’ he said, ‘so
let’s see you smile and look happy. You mustn’t sit there
scowling, you know—far too pretty a little mouth for that.
Let me take off that heavy coat. Look, I’ll wrap it round
your knees. There, now, isn’t that better? ... Fine, strong
little legs, eh? ...’</p>

<p>Adam did not embarrass them. The wine and the deep
cushions and the accumulated fatigue of two days’ fighting
drew him away from them and, oblivious to all the happy
emotion pulsing near him, he sank into sleep.</p>

<p>The windows of the stranded motor car shone over the
wasted expanse of the battlefield. Then the General pulled
down the blinds, shutting out that sad scene.</p>

<p>‘Cosier now, eh?’ he said.</p>

<p>And Chastity in the prettiest way possible fingered the
decorations on his uniform and asked him all about them.</p>

<p>And presently, like a circling typhoon, the sounds of battle
began to return.</p>
